{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2865
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28260\viewh15600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
                           MANHATTAN TRANSFER\
\
                  COPYRIGHT, 1925, BY JOHN DOS PASSOS\
\
                        PRINTED IN THE U. S. A.\
\
                             TENTH PRINTING\
\
\
\
\
                            CONTENTS\
\
\
\
\
        _First Section_\
\
        I FERRYSLIP      _3_\
\
        II METROPOLIS      _12_\
\
        III DOLLARS      _49_\
\
        IV TRACKS      _78_\
\
        V STEAMROLLER      _112_\
\
\
        _Second Section_\
\
        I GREAT LADY ON A WHITE HORSE      _129_\
\
        II LONGLEGGED JACK OF THE ISTHMUS      _144_\
\
        III NINE DAYS\'92 WONDER      _169_\
\
        IV FIRE ENGINE      _202_\
\
        V WENT TO THE ANIMALS\'92 FAIR      _217_\
\
        VI FIVE STATUTORY QUESTIONS      _237_\
\
        VII ROLLERCOASTER      _249_\
\
        VIII ONE MORE RIVER TO JORDAN      _255_\
\
\
        _Third Section_\
\
        I REJOICING CITY THAT DWELT CARELESSLY      _271_\
\
        II NICKELODEON      _291_\
\
        III REVOLVING DOORS      _305_\
\
        IV SKYSCRAPER      _351_\
\
        V THE BURTHEN OF NINEVEH      _371_\
\
\
\
\
                            _First Section_\
\
\
\
\
I. Ferryslip\
\
          _Three gulls wheel above the broken boxes, orangerinds,\
          spoiled cabbage heads that heave between the splintered\
          plank walls, the green waves spume under the round bow as\
          the ferry, skidding on the tide, crashes, gulps the broken\
          water, slides, settles slowly into the slip. Handwinches\
          whirl with jingle of chains. Gates fold upwards, feet step\
          out across the crack, men and women press through the\
          manuresmelling wooden tunnel of the ferryhouse, crushed and\
          jostling like apples fed down a chute into a press._\
\
\
The nurse, holding the basket at arm\'92s length as if it were a bedpan,\
opened the door to a big dry hot room with greenish distempered walls\
where in the air tinctured with smells of alcohol and iodoform hung\
writhing a faint sourish squalling from other baskets along the wall.\
As she set her basket down she glanced into it with pursed-up lips.\
The newborn baby squirmed in the cottonwool feebly like a knot of\
earthworms.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
On the ferry there was an old man playing the violin. He had a monkey\'92s\
face puckered up in one corner and kept time with the toe of a cracked\
patent-leather shoe. Bud Korpenning sat on the rail watching him, his\
back to the river. The breeze made the hair stir round the tight line\
of his cap and dried the sweat on his temples. His feet were blistered,\
he was leadentired, but when the ferry moved out of the slip, bucking\
the little slapping scalloped waves of the river he felt something warm\
and tingling shoot suddenly through all his veins. \'93Say, friend, how\
fur is it into the city from where this ferry lands?\'94 he asked a young\
man in a straw hat wearing a blue and white striped necktie who stood\
beside him.\
\
The young man\'92s glance moved up from Bud\'92s road-swelled shoes to the\
red wrist that stuck out from the frayed sleeves of his coat, past the\
skinny turkey\'92s throat and slid up cockily into the intent eyes under\
the broken-visored cap.\
\
\'93That depends where you want to get to.\'94\
\
\'93How do I get to Broadway?... I want to get to the center of things.\'94\
\
\'93Walk east a block and turn down Broadway and you\'92ll find the center of\
things if you walk far enough.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you sir. I\'92ll do that.\'94\
\
The violinist was going through the crowd with his hat held out, the\
wind ruffling the wisps of gray hair on his shabby bald head. Bud\
found the face tilted up at him, the crushed eyes like two black pins\
looking into his. \'93Nothin,\'94 he said gruffly and turned away to look\
at the expanse of river bright as knifeblades. The plank walls of the\
slip closed in, cracked as the ferry lurched against them; there was\
rattling of chains, and Bud was pushed forward among the crowd through\
the ferryhouse. He walked between two coal wagons and out over a dusty\
expanse of street towards yellow streetcars. A trembling took hold of\
his knees. He thrust his hands deep in his pockets.\
\
EAT on a lunchwagon halfway down the block. He slid stiffly onto a\
revolving stool and looked for a long while at the pricelist.\
\
\'93Fried eggs and a cup o coffee.\'94\
\
\'93Want \'92em turned over?\'94 asked the redhaired man behind the counter\
who was wiping off his beefy freckled forearms with his apron. Bud\
Korpenning sat up with a start.\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93The eggs? Want em turned over or sunny side up?\'94\
\
\'93Oh sure, turn \'92em over.\'94 Bud slouched over the counter again with his\
head between his hands.\
\
\'93You look all in, feller,\'94 the man said as he broke the eggs into the\
sizzling grease of the frying pan.\
\
\'93Came down from upstate. I walked fifteen miles this mornin.\'94\
\
The man made a whistling sound through his eyeteeth. \'93Comin to the big\
city to look for a job, eh?\'94\
\
Bud nodded. The man flopped the eggs sizzling and netted with brown out\
onto the plate and pushed it towards Bud with some bread and butter on\
the edge of it. \'93I\'92m goin to slip you a bit of advice, feller, and it\
won\'92t cost you nutten. You go an git a shave and a haircut and brush\
the hayseeds out o yer suit a bit before you start lookin. You\'92ll be\
more likely to git somethin. It\'92s looks that count in this city.\'94\
\
\'93I kin work all right. I\'92m a good worker,\'94 growled Bud with his mouth\
full.\
\
\'93I\'92m tellin yez, that\'92s all,\'94 said the redhaired man and turned back to\
his stove.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
When Ed Thatcher climbed the marble steps of the wide hospital entry he\
was trembling. The smell of drugs caught at his throat. A woman with a\
starched face was looking at him over the top of a desk. He tried to\
steady his voice.\
\
\'93Can you tell me how Mrs. Thatcher is?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, you can go up.\'94\
\
\'93But please, miss, is everything all right?\'94\
\
\'93The nurse on the floor will know anything about the case. Stairs to\
the left, third floor, maternity ward.\'94\
\
Ed Thatcher held a bunch of flowers wrapped in green waxed paper. The\
broad stairs swayed as he stumbled up, his toes kicking against the\
brass rods that held the fiber matting down. The closing of a door cut\
off a strangled shriek. He stopped a nurse.\
\
\'93I want to see Mrs. Thatcher, please.\'94\
\
\'93Go right ahead if you know where she is.\'94\
\
\'93But they\'92ve moved her.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll have to ask at the desk at the end of the hall.\'94\
\
He gnawed his cold lips. At the end of the hall a redfaced woman looked\
at him, smiling.\
\
\'93Everything\'92s fine. You\'92re the happy father of a bouncing baby girl.\'94\
\
\'93You see it\'92s our first and Susie\'92s so delicate,\'94 he stammered with\
blinking eyes.\
\
\'93Oh yes, I understand, naturally you worried.... You can go in and talk\
to her when she wakes up. The baby was born two hours ago. Be sure not\
to tire her.\'94\
\
Ed Thatcher was a little man with two blond wisps of mustache and\
washedout gray eyes. He seized the nurse\'92s hand and shook it showing\
all his uneven yellow teeth in a smile.\
\
\'93You see it\'92s our first.\'94\
\
\'93Congratulations,\'94 said the nurse.\
\
Rows of beds under bilious gaslight, a sick smell of restlessly\
stirring bedclothes, faces fat, lean, yellow, white; that\'92s her.\
Susie\'92s yellow hair lay in a loose coil round her little white face\
that looked shriveled and twisted. He unwrapped the roses and put them\
on the night table. Looking out the window was like looking down into\
water. The trees in the square were tangled in blue cobwebs. Down the\
avenue lamps were coming on marking off with green shimmer brickpurple\
blocks of houses; chimney pots and water tanks cut sharp into a sky\
flushed like flesh. The blue lids slipped back off her eyes.\
\
\'93That you Ed?... Why Ed they are Jacks. How extravagant of you.\'94\
\
\'93I couldn\'92t help it dearest. I knew you liked them.\'94\
\
A nurse was hovering near the end of the bed.\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t you let us see the baby, miss?\'94\
\
The nurse nodded. She was a lanternjawed grayfaced woman with tight\
lips.\
\
\'93I hate her,\'94 whispered Susie. \'93She gives me the fidgets that woman\
does; she\'92s nothing but a mean old maid.\'94\
\
\'93Never mind dear, it\'92s just for a day or two.\'94 Susie closed her eyes.\
\
\'93Do you still want to call her Ellen?\'94\
\
The nurse brought back a basket and set it on the bed beside Susie.\
\
\'93Oh isn\'92t she wonderful!\'94 said Ed. \'93Look she\'92s breathing.... And\
they\'92ve oiled her.\'94 He helped his wife to raise herself on her elbow;\
the yellow coil of her hair unrolled, fell over his hand and arm. \'93How\
can you tell them apart nurse?\'94\
\
\'93Sometimes we cant,\'94 said the nurse, stretching her mouth in a smile.\
Susie was looking querulously into the minute purple face. \'93You\'92re sure\
this is mine.\'94\
\
\'93Of course.\'94\
\
\'93But it hasnt any label on it.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll label it right away.\'94\
\
\'93But mine was dark.\'94 Susie lay back on the pillow, gasping for breath.\
\
\'93She has lovely little light fuzz just the color of your hair.\'94\
\
Susie stretched her arms out above her head and shrieked: \'93It\'92s not\
mine. It\'92s not mine. Take it away.... That woman\'92s stolen my baby.\'94\
\
\'93Dear, for Heaven\'92s sake! Dear, for Heaven\'92s sake!\'94 He tried to tuck\
the covers about her.\
\
\'93Too bad,\'94 said the nurse, calmly, picking up the basket. \'93I\'92ll have to\
give her a sedative.\'94\
\
Susie sat up stiff in bed. \'93Take it away,\'94 she yelled and fell back in\
hysterics, letting out continuous frail moaning shrieks.\
\
\'93O my God!\'94 cried Ed Thatcher, clasping his hands.\
\
\'93You\'92d better go away for this evening, Mr. Thatcher.... She\'92ll quiet\
down, once you\'92ve gone.... I\'92ll put the roses in water.\'94\
\
On the last flight he caught up with a chubby man who was strolling\
down slowly, rubbing his hands as he went. Their eyes met.\
\
\'93Everything all right, sir?\'94 asked the chubby man.\
\
\'93Oh yes, I guess so,\'94 said Thatcher faintly.\
\
The chubby man turned on him, delight bubbling through his thick\
voice. \'93Congradulade me, congradulade me; mein vife has giben birth to\
a poy.\'94\
\
Thatcher shook a fat little hand. \'93Mine\'92s a girl,\'94 he admitted,\
sheepishly.\
\
\'93It is fif years yet and every year a girl, and now dink of it, a poy.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Ed Thatcher as they stepped out on the pavement, \'93it\'92s a\
great moment.\'94\
\
\'93Vill yous allow me sir to invite you to drink a congradulation drink\
mit me?\'94\
\
\'93Why with pleasure.\'94\
\
The latticed halfdoors were swinging in the saloon at the corner of\
Third Avenue. Shuffling their feet politely they went through into the\
back room.\
\
\'93Ach,\'94 said the German as they sat down at a scarred brown table,\
\'93family life is full of vorries.\'94\
\
\'93That it is sir; this is my first.\'94\
\
\'93Vill you haf beer?\'94\
\
\'93All right anything suits me.\'94\
\
\'93Two pottles Culmbacher imported to drink to our little folk.\'94 The\
bottles popped and the sepia-tinged foam rose in the glasses. \'93Here\'92s\
success.... Prosit,\'94 said the German, and raised his glass. He rubbed\
the foam out of his mustache and pounded on the table with a pink fist.\
\'93Vould it be indiscreet meester...?\'94\
\
\'93Thatcher\'92s my name.\'94\
\
\'93Vould it be indiscreet, Mr. Thatcher, to inquvire vat might your\
profession be?\'94\
\
\'93Accountant. I hope before long to be a certified accountant.\'94\
\
\'93I am a printer and my name is Zucher--Marcus Antonius Zucher.\'94\
\
\'93Pleased to meet you Mr. Zucher.\'94\
\
They shook hands across the table between the bottles.\
\
\'93A certified accountant makes big money,\'94 said Mr. Zucher.\
\
\'93Big money\'92s what I\'92ll have to have, for my little girl.\'94\
\
\'93Kids, they eat money,\'94 continued Mr. Zucher, in a deep voice.\
\
\'93Wont you let me set you up to a bottle?\'94 said Thatcher, figuring up\
how much he had in his pocket. \'93Poor Susie wouldn\'92t like me to be\
drinking in a saloon like this. But just this once, and I\'92m learning,\
learning about fatherhood.\'94\
\
\'93The more the merrier,\'94 said Mr. Zucher. \'93... But kids, they eat\
money.... Dont do nutten but eat and vear out clothes. Vonce I get\
my business on its feet.... Ach! Now vot mit hypothecations and the\
difficult borrowing of money and vot mit vages going up und these here\
crazy tradeunion socialists and bomsters ...\'94\
\
\'93Well here\'92s how, Mr. Zucher.\'94 Mr. Zucher squeezed the foam out of his\
mustache with the thumb and forefinger of each hand. \'93It aint every day\
ve pring into the voirld a papy poy, Mr. Thatcher.\'94\
\
\'93Or a baby girl, Mr. Zucher.\'94\
\
The barkeep wiped the spillings off the table when he brought the new\
bottles, and stood near listening, the rag dangling from his red hands.\
\
\'93And I have the hope in mein heart that ven my poy drinks to his poy,\
it vill be in champagne vine. Ach, that is how things go in this great\
city.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like my girl to be a quiet homey girl, not like these young women\
nowadays, all frills and furbelows and tight lacings. And I\'92ll have\
retired by that time and have a little place up the Hudson, work in the\
garden evenings.... I know fellers downtown who have retired with three\
thousand a year. It\'92s saving that does it.\'94\
\
\'93Aint no good in savin,\'94 said the barkeep. \'93I saved for ten years and\
the savings bank went broke and left me nutten but a bankbook for my\
trouble. Get a close tip and take a chance, that\'92s the only system.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s nothing but gambling,\'94 snapped Thatcher.\
\
\'93Well sir it\'92s a gamblin game,\'94 said the barkeep as he walked back to\
the bar swinging the two empty bottles.\
\
\'93A gamblin game. He aint so far out,\'94 said Mr. Zucher, looking down\
into his beer with a glassy meditative eye. \'93A man vat is ambeetious\
must take chances. Ambeetions is vat I came here from Frankfort mit at\
the age of tvelf years, und now that I haf a son to vork for ... Ach,\
his name shall be Vilhelm after the mighty Kaiser.\'94\
\
\'93My little girl\'92s name will be Ellen after my mother.\'94 Ed Thatcher\'92s\
eyes filled with tears.\
\
Mr. Zucher got to his feet. \'93Vell goodpy Mr. Thatcher. Happy to have\
met you. I must go home to my little girls.\'94\
\
Thatcher shook the chubby hand again, and thinking warm soft thoughts\
of motherhood and fatherhood and birthday cakes and Christmas watched\
through a sepia-tinged foamy haze Mr. Zucher waddle out through the\
swinging doors. After a while he stretched out his arms. Well poor\
little Susie wouldn\'92t like me to be here.... Everything for her and the\
bonny wee bairn.\
\
\'93Hey there yous how about settlin?\'94 bawled the barkeep after him when\
he reached the door.\
\
\'93Didnt the other feller pay?\'94\
\
\'93Like hell he did.\'94\
\
\'93But he was t-t-treating me....\'94\
\
The barkeep laughed as he covered the money with a red lipper. \'93I guess\
that bloat believes in savin.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
A small bearded bandylegged man in a derby walked up Allen Street,\
up the sunstriped tunnel hung with skyblue and smokedsalmon and\
mustardyellow quilts, littered with second hand gingerbread-colored\
furniture. He walked with his cold hands clasped over the tails of his\
frockcoat, picking his way among packing boxes and scuttling children.\
He kept gnawing his lips and clasping and unclasping his hands. He\
walked without hearing the yells of the children or the annihilating\
clatter of the L trains overhead or smelling the rancid sweet huddled\
smell of packed tenements.\
\
At a yellowpainted drugstore at the corner of Canal, he stopped and\
stared abstractedly at a face on a green advertising card. It was a\
highbrowed cleanshaven distinguished face with arched eyebrows and\
a bushy neatly trimmed mustache, the face of a man who had money in\
the bank, poised prosperously above a crisp wing collar and an ample\
dark cravat. Under it in copybook writing was the signature King C.\
Gillette. Above his head hovered the motto NO STROPPING NO HONING. The\
little bearded man pushed his derby back off his sweating brow and\
looked for a long time into the dollarproud eyes of King C. Gillette.\
Then he clenched his fists, threw back his shoulders and walked into\
the drugstore.\
\
His wife and daughters were out. He heated up a pitcher of water on the\
gasburner. Then with the scissors he found on the mantel he clipped the\
long brown locks of his beard. Then he started shaving very carefully\
with the new nickelbright safety razor. He stood trembling running his\
fingers down his smooth white cheeks in front of the stained mirror. He\
was trimming his mustache when he heard a noise behind him. He turned\
towards them a face smooth as the face of King C. Gillette, a face with\
a dollarbland smile. The two little girls\'92 eyes were popping out of\
their heads. \'93Mommer ... it\'92s popper,\'94 the biggest one yelled. His wife\
dropped like a laundrybag into the rocker and threw the apron over her\
head.\
\
\'93Oyoy! Oyoy!\'94 she moaned rocking back and forth.\
\
\'93Vat\'92s a matter? Dontye like it?\'94 He walked back and forth with the\
safety razor shining in his hand now and then gently fingering his\
smooth chin.\
\
\
\
\
II. Metropolis\
\
          _There were Babylon and Nineveh: they were built of brick.\
          Athens was gold marble columns. Rome was held up on broad\
          arches of rubble. In Constantinople the minarets flame like\
          great candles round the Golden Horn ... Steel, glass, tile,\
          concrete will be the materials of the skyscrapers. Crammed\
          on the narrow island the millionwindowed buildings will jut\
          glittering, pyramid on pyramid like the white cloudhead\
          above a thunderstorm._\
\
\
When the door of the room closed behind him, Ed Thatcher felt very\
lonely, full of prickly restlessness. If Susie were only here he\'92d\
tell her about the big money he was going to make and how he\'92d deposit\
ten dollars a week in the savings bank just for little Ellen; that\
would make five hundred and twenty dollars a year.... Why in ten years\
without the interest that\'92d come to more than five thousand dollars. I\
must compute the compound interest on five hundred and twenty dollars\
at four per cent. He walked excitedly about the narrow room. The gas\
jet purred comfortably like a cat. His eyes fell on the headline on a\
_Journal_ that lay on the floor by the coalscuttle where he had dropped\
it to run for the hack to take Susie to the hospital.\
\
                 MORTON SIGNS THE GREATER NEW YORK BILL\
\
            COMPLETES THE ACT MAKING NEW YORK WORLD\'92S SECOND\
                               METROPOLIS\
\
Breathing deep he folded the paper and laid it on the table. The\
world\'92s second metropolis.... And dad wanted me to stay in his ole fool\
store in Onteora. Might have if it hadnt been for Susie.... Gentlemen\
tonight that you do me the signal honor of offering me the junior\
partnership in your firm I want to present to you my little girl, my\
wife. I owe everything to her.\
\
In the bow he made towards the grate his coat-tails flicked a piece of\
china off the console beside the bookcase. He made a little clicking\
noise with his tongue against his teeth as he stooped to pick it up.\
The head of the blue porcelain Dutch girl had broken off from her body.\
\'93And poor Susie\'92s so fond of her knicknacks. I\'92d better go to bed.\'94\
\
He pushed up the window and leaned out. An L train was rumbling past\
the end of the street. A whiff of coal smoke stung his nostrils. He\
hung out of the window a long while looking up and down the street. The\
world\'92s second metropolis. In the brick houses and the dingy lamplight\
and the voices of a group of boys kidding and quarreling on the steps\
of a house opposite, in the regular firm tread of a policeman, he felt\
a marching like soldiers, like a sidewheeler going up the Hudson under\
the Palisades, like an election parade, through long streets towards\
something tall white full of colonnades and stately. Metropolis.\
\
The street was suddenly full of running. Somebody out of breath let out\
the word Fire.\
\
\'93Where at?\'94\
\
The group of boys melted off the stoop across the way. Thatcher turned\
back into the room. It was stifling hot. He was all tingling to be\
out. I ought to go to bed. Down the street he heard the splattering\
hoofbeats and the frenzied bell of a fire engine. Just take a look. He\
ran down the stairs with his hat in his hand.\
\
\'93Which way is it?\'94\
\
\'93Down on the next block.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a tenement house.\'94\
\
It was a narrowwindowed sixstory tenement. The hookandladder had just\
drawn up. Brown smoke, with here and there a little trail of sparks\
was pouring fast out of the lower windows. Three policemen were\
swinging their clubs as they packed the crowd back against the steps\
and railings of the houses opposite. In the empty space in the middle\
of the street the fire engine and the red hosewagon shone with bright\
brass. People watched silent staring at the upper windows where shadows\
moved and occasional light flickered. A thin pillar of flame began to\
flare above the house like a romancandle.\
\
\'93The airshaft,\'94 whispered a man in Thatcher\'92s ear. A gust of wind\
filled the street with smoke and a smell of burning rags. Thatcher\
felt suddenly sick. When the smoke cleared he saw people hanging in a\
kicking cluster, hanging by their hands from a windowledge. The other\
side firemen were helping women down a ladder. The flame in the center\
of the house flared brighter. Something black had dropped from a window\
and lay on the pavement shrieking. The policemen were shoving the crowd\
back to the ends of the block. New fire engines were arriving.\
\
\'93Theyve got five alarms in,\'94 a man said. \'93What do you think of that?\
Everyone of \'92em on the two top floors was trapped. It\'92s an incendiary\
done it. Some goddam firebug.\'94\
\
A young man sat huddled on the curb beside the gas lamp. Thatcher found\
himself standing over him pushed by the crowd from behind.\
\
\'93He\'92s an Italian.\'94\
\
\'93His wife\'92s in that buildin.\'94\
\
\'93Cops wont let him get by.\'94 \'93His wife\'92s in a family way. He cant talk\
English to ask the cops.\'94\
\
The man wore blue suspenders tied up with a piece of string in back.\
His back was heaving and now and then he left out a string of groaning\
words nobody understood.\
\
Thatcher was working his way out of the crowd. At the corner a man was\
looking into the fire alarm box. As Thatcher brushed past him he caught\
a smell of coaloil from the man\'92s clothes. The man looked up into his\
face with a smile. He had tallowy sagging cheeks and bright popeyes.\
Thatcher\'92s hands and feet went suddenly cold. The firebug. The papers\
say they hang round like that to watch it. He walked home fast, ran up\
the stairs, and locked the room door behind him. The room was quiet and\
empty. He\'92d forgotten that Susie wouldnt be there waiting for him. He\
began to undress. He couldnt forget the smell of coaloil on the man\'92s\
clothes.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Mr. Perry flicked at the burdock leaves with his cane. The real-estate\
agent was pleading in a singsong voice:\
\
\'93I dont mind telling you, Mr. Perry, it\'92s an opportunity not to be\
missed. You know the old saying sir ... opportunity knocks but once\
on a young man\'92s door. In six months I can virtually guarantee that\
these lots will have doubled in value. Now that we are a part of New\
York, the second city in the world, sir, dont forget that.... Why the\
time will come, and I firmly believe that you and I will see it, when\
bridge after bridge spanning the East River have made Long Island and\
Manhattan one, when the Borough of Queens will be as much the heart and\
throbbing center of the great metropolis as is Astor Place today.\'94\
\
\'93I know, I know, but I\'92m looking for something dead safe. And besides I\
want to build. My wife hasnt been very well these last few years....\'94\
\
\'93But what could be safer than my proposition? Do you realize Mr.\
Perry, that at considerable personal loss I\'92m letting you in on\
the ground floor of one of the greatest real-estate certainties of\
modern times. I\'92m putting at your disposal not only security, but\
ease, comfort, luxury. We are caught up Mr. Perry on a great wave\
whether we will or no, a great wave of expansion and progress. A great\
deal is going to happen in the next few years. All these mechanical\
inventions--telephones, electricity, steel bridges, horseless\
vehicles--they are all leading somewhere. It\'92s up to us to be on the\
inside, in the forefront of progress.... My God! I cant begin to tell\
you what it will mean....\'94 Poking amid the dry grass and the burdock\
leaves Mr. Perry had moved something with his stick. He stooped and\
picked up a triangular skull with a pair of spiralfluted horns. \'93By\
gad!\'94 he said. \'93That must have been a fine ram.\'94\
\
Drowsy from the smell of lather and bayrum and singed hair that weighed\
down the close air of the barbershop, Bud sat nodding, his hands\
dangling big and red between his knees. In his eardrums he could still\
feel through the snipping of scissors the pounding of his feet on the\
hungry road down from Nyack.\
\
\'93Next!\'94\
\
\'93Whassat?... All right I just want a shave an a haircut.\'94\
\
The barber\'92s pudgy hands moved through his hair, the scissors whirred\
like a hornet behind his ears. His eyes kept closing; he jerked them\
open fighting sleep. He could see beyond the striped sheet littered\
with sandy hair the bobbing hammerhead of the colored boy shining his\
shoes.\
\
\'93Yessir\'94 a deepvoiced man droned from the next chair, \'93it\'92s time the\
Democratic party nominated a strong ...\'94\
\
\'93Want a neckshave as well?\'94 The barber\'92s greasyskinned moonface poked\
into his.\
\
He nodded.\
\
\'93Shampoo?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
When the barber threw back the chair to shave him he wanted to crane\
his neck like a mudturtle turned over on its back. The lather spread\
drowsily on his face, prickling his nose, filling up his ears. Drowning\
in featherbeds of lather, blue lather, black, slit by the faraway\
glint of the razor, glint of the grubbing hoe through blueblack lather\
clouds. The old man on his back in the potatofield, his beard sticking\
up lathery white full of blood. Full of blood his socks from those\
blisters on his heels. His hands gripped each other cold and horny like\
a dead man\'92s hands under the sheet. Lemme git up.... He opened his\
eyes. Padded fingertips were stroking his chin. He stared up at the\
ceiling where four flies made figure eights round a red cr\'eape-paper\
bell. His tongue was dry leather in his mouth. The barber righted the\
chair again. Bud looked about blinking. \'93Four bits, and a nickel for\
the shine.\'94\
\
ADMITS KILLING CRIPPLED MOTHER ...\
\
\'93D\'92yous mind if I set here a minute an read that paper?\'94 he hears his\
voice drawling in his pounding ears.\
\
\'93Go right ahead.\'94\
\
PARKER\'92S FRIENDS PROTECT ...\
\
The black print squirms before his eyes. Russians ... MOB STONES ...\
(Special Dispatch to the _Herald_) Trenton, N. J.\
\
     Nathan Sibbetts, fourteen years old, broke down today after\
     two weeks of steady denial of guilt and confessed to the\
     police that he was responsible for the death of his aged\
     and crippled mother, Hannah Sibbetts, after a quarrel in\
     their home at Jacob\'92s Creek, six miles above this city.\
     Tonight he was committed to await the action of the Grand\
     Jury.\
\
RELIEVE PORT ARTHUR IN FACE OF ENEMY ... Mrs. Rix Loses Husband\'92s Ashes.\
\
     On Tuesday May 24 at about half past eight o\'92clock I came\
     home after sleeping on the steam roller all night, he said,\
     and went upstairs to sleep some more. I had only gotten to\
     sleep when my mother came upstairs and told me to get up\
     and if I didn\'92t get up she would throw me downstairs. My\
     mother grabbed hold of me to throw me downstairs. I threw\
     her first and she fell to the bottom. I went downstairs\
     and found that her head was twisted to one side. I then\
     saw that she was dead and then I straightened her neck and\
     covered her up with the cover from my bed.\
\
Bud folds the paper carefully, lays it on the chair and leaves the\
barbershop. Outside the air smells of crowds, is full of noise and\
sunlight. No more\'92n a needle in a haystack ... \'93An I\'92m twentyfive years\
old,\'94 he muttered aloud. Think of a kid fourteen.... He walks faster\
along roaring pavements where the sun shines through the Elevated\
striping the blue street with warm seething yellow stripes. No more\'92n a\
needle in a haystack.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Ed Thatcher sat hunched over the pianokeys picking out the Mosquito\
Parade. Sunday afternoon sunlight streamed dustily through the heavy\
lace curtains of the window, squirmed in the red roses of the carpet,\
filled the cluttered parlor with specks and splinters of light. Susie\
Thatcher sat limp by the window watching him out of eyes too blue for\
her sallow face. Between them, stepping carefully among the roses on\
the sunny field of the carpet, little Ellen danced. Two small hands\
held up the pinkfrilled dress and now and then an emphatic little voice\
said, \'93Mummy watch my expression.\'94\
\
\'93Just look at the child,\'94 said Thatcher, still playing. \'93She\'92s a\
regular little balletdancer.\'94\
\
Sheets of the Sunday paper lay where they had fallen from the table;\
Ellen started dancing on them, tearing the sheets under her nimble tiny\
feet.\
\
\'93Dont do that Ellen dear,\'94 whined Susie from the pink plush chair.\
\
\'93But mummy I can do it while I dance.\'94\
\
\'93Dont do that mother said.\'94 Ed Thatcher had slid into the Barcarole.\
Ellen was dancing to it, her arms swaying to it, her feet nimbly\
tearing the paper.\
\
\'93Ed for Heaven\'92s sake pick the child up; she\'92s tearing the paper.\'94\
\
He brought his fingers down in a lingering chord. \'93Deary you mustnt do\
that. Daddy\'92s not finished reading it.\'94\
\
Ellen went right on. Thatcher swooped down on her from the pianostool\
and set her squirming and laughing on his knee. \'93Ellen you should\
always mind when mummy speaks to you, and dear you shouldnt be\
destructive. It costs money to make that paper and people worked on\
it and daddy went out to buy it and he hasnt finished reading it\
yet. Ellie understands dont she now? We need con-struction and not\
de-struction in this world.\'94 Then he went on with the Barcarole and\
Ellen went on dancing, stepping carefully among the roses on the sunny\
field of the carpet.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
There were six men at the table in the lunch room eating fast with\
their hats on the backs of their heads.\
\
\'93Jiminy crickets!\'94 cried the young man at the end of the table who was\
holding a newspaper in one hand and a cup of coffee in the other. \'93Kin\
you beat it?\'94\
\
\'93Beat what?\'94 growled a longfaced man with a toothpick in the corner of\
his mouth.\
\
\'93Big snake appears on Fifth Avenue.... Ladies screamed and ran in all\
directions this morning at eleven thirty when a big snake crawled\
out of a crack in the masonry of the retaining wall of the reservoir\
at Fifth Avenue and Fortysecond Street and started to cross the\
sidewalk....\'94\
\
\'93Some fish story....\'94\
\
\'93That aint nothin,\'94 said an old man. \'93When I was a boy we used to go\
snipeshootin on Brooklyn Flats....\'94\
\
\'93Holy Moses! it\'92s quarter of nine,\'94 muttered the young man folding\
his paper and hurrying out into Hudson Street that was full of men\
and girls walking briskly through the ruddy morning. The scrape of\
the shoes of hairyhoofed drayhorses and the grind of the wheels of\
producewagons made a deafening clatter and filled the air with sharp\
dust. A girl in a flowered bonnet with a big lavender bow under her\
pert tilted chin was waiting for him in the door of M. Sullivan & Co.,\
Storage and Warehousing. The young man felt all fizzy inside, like a\
freshly uncorked bottle of pop.\
\
\'93Hello Emily!... Say Emily I\'92ve got a raise.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re pretty near late, d\'92you know that?\'94\
\
\'93But honest injun I\'92ve got a two-dollar raise.\'94\
\
She tilted her chin first to oneside and then to the other.\
\
\'93I dont give a rap.\'94\
\
\'93You know what you said if I got a raise.\'94 She looked in his eyes\
giggling.\
\
\'93An this is just the beginnin ...\'94\
\
\'93But what good\'92s fifteen dollars a week?\'94\
\
\'93Why it\'92s sixty dollars a month, an I\'92m learning the import business.\'94\
\
\'93Silly boy you\'92ll be late.\'94 She suddenly turned and ran up the littered\
stairs, her pleated bellshaped skirt swishing from side to side.\
\
\'93God! I hate her. I hate her.\'94 Sniffing up the tears that were hot in\
his eyes, he walked fast down Hudson Street to the office of Winkle &\
Gulick, West India Importers.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The deck beside the forward winch was warm and briny damp. They were\
sprawled side by side in greasy denims talking drowsily in whispers,\
their ears full of the seethe of broken water as the bow shoved bluntly\
through the long grassgray swells of the Gulf Stream.\
\
\'93J\'92te dis mon vieux, moi j\'92fou l\'92camp \'e0 New York.... The minute we\
tie up I go ashore and I stay ashore. I\'92m through with this dog\'92s\
life.\'94 The cabinboy had fair hair and an oval pink-and-cream face; a\
dead cigarette butt fell from between his lips as he spoke. \'93Merde!\'94\
He reached for it as it rolled down the deck. It escaped his hand and\
bounced into the scuppers.\
\
\'93Let it go. I\'92ve got plenty,\'94 said the other boy who lay on his belly\
kicking a pair of dirty feet up into the hazy sunlight. \'93The consul\
will just have you shipped back.\'94\
\
\'93He wont catch me.\'94\
\
\'93And your military service?\'94\
\
\'93To hell with it. And with France too for that matter.\'94\
\
\'93You want to make yourself an American citizen?\'94\
\
\'93Why not? A man has a right to choose his country.\'94\
\
The other rubbed his nose meditatively with his fist and then let his\
breath out in a long whistle. \'93Emile you\'92re a wise guy,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93But Congo, why dont you come too? You dont want to shovel crap in a\
stinking ship\'92s galley all your life.\'94\
\
Congo rolled himself round and sat up crosslegged, scratching his head\
that was thick with kinky black hair.\
\
\'93Say how much does a woman cost in New York?\'94\
\
\'93I dunno, expensive I guess.... I\'92m not going ashore to raise hell; I\'92m\
going to get a good job and work. Cant you think of nothing but women?\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the use? Why not?\'94 said Congo and settled himself flat on the\
deck again, burying his dark sootsmudged face in his crossed arms.\
\
\'93I want to get somewhere in the world, that\'92s what I mean. Europe\'92s\
rotten and stinking. In America a fellow can get ahead. Birth dont\
matter, education dont matter. It\'92s all getting ahead.\'94\
\
\'93And if there was a nice passionate little woman right here now where\
the deck\'92s warm, you wouldn\'92t like to love her up?\'94\
\
\'93After we\'92re rich, we\'92ll have plenty, plenty of everything.\'94\
\
\'93And they dont have any military service?\'94\
\
\'93Why should they? Its the coin they\'92re after. They dont want to fight\
people; they want to do business with them.\'94\
\
Congo did not answer.\
\
The cabin boy lay on his back looking at the clouds. They floated from\
the west, great piled edifices with the sunlight crashing through\
between, bright and white like tinfoil. He was walking through tall\
white highpiled streets, stalking in a frock coat with a tall white\
collar up tinfoil stairs, broad, cleanswept, through blue portals into\
streaky marble halls where money rustled and clinked on long tinfoil\
tables, banknotes, silver, gold.\
\
\'93Merde v\'92l\'e0 l\'92heure.\'94 The paired strokes of the bell in the crowsnest\
came faintly to their ears. \'93But dont forget, Congo, the first night we\
get ashore ...\'94 He made a popping noise with his lips. \'93We\'92re gone.\'94\
\
\'93I was asleep. I dreamed of a little blonde girl. I\'92d have had her if\
you hadnt waked me.\'94 The cabinboy got to his feet with a grunt and\
stood a moment looking west to where the swells ended in a sharp wavy\
line against a sky hard and abrupt as nickel. Then he pushed Congo\'92s\
face down against the deck and ran aft, the wooden clogs clattering on\
his bare feet as he went.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Outside, the hot June Saturday was dragging its frazzled ends down\
110th Street. Susie Thatcher lay uneasily in bed, her hands spread\
blue and bony on the coverlet before her. Voices came through the thin\
partition. A young girl was crying through her nose:\
\
\'93I tell yer mommer I aint agoin back to him.\'94\
\
Then came expostulating an old staid Jewish woman\'92s voice: \'93But Rosie,\
married life aint all beer and skittles. A vife must submit and vork\
for her husband.\'94\
\
\'93I wont. I cant help it. I wont go back to the dirty brute.\'94\
\
Susie sat up in bed, but she couldn\'92t hear the next thing the old woman\
said.\
\
\'93But I aint a Jew no more,\'94 suddenly screeched the young girl. \'93This\
aint Russia; it\'92s little old New York. A girl\'92s got some rights here.\'94\
Then a door slammed and everything was quiet.\
\
Susie Thatcher stirred in bed moaning fretfully. Those awful people\
never give me a moment\'92s peace. From below came the jingle of a\
pianola playing the Merry Widow Waltz. O Lord! why dont Ed come home?\
It\'92s cruel of them to leave a sick woman alone like this. Selfish.\
She twisted up her mouth and began to cry. Then she lay quiet again,\
staring at the ceiling watching the flies buzz teasingly round the\
electriclight fixture. A wagon clattered by down the street. She could\
hear children\'92s voices screeching. A boy passed yelling an extra.\
Suppose there\'92d been a fire. That terrible Chicago theater fire. Oh\
I\'92ll go mad! She tossed about in the bed, her pointed nails digging\
into the palms of her hands. I\'92ll take another tablet. Maybe I can get\
some sleep. She raised herself on her elbow and took the last tablet\
out of a little tin box. The gulp of water that washed the tablet down\
was soothing to her throat. She closed her eyes and lay quiet.\
\
She woke with a start. Ellen was jumping round the room, her green tam\
falling off the back of her head, her coppery curls wild.\
\
\'93Oh mummy I want to be a little boy.\'94\
\
\'93Quieter dear. Mother\'92s not feeling a bit well.\'94\
\
\'93I want to be a little boy.\'94\
\
\'93Why Ed what have you done to the child? She\'92s all wrought up.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re just excited, Susie. We\'92ve been to the most wonderful play.\
You\'92d have loved it, it\'92s so poetic and all that sort of thing. And\
Maude Adams was fine. Ellie loved every minute of it.\'94\
\
\'93It seems silly, as I said before, to take such a young child ...\'94\
\
\'93Oh daddy I want to be a boy.\'94\
\
\'93I like my little girl the way she is. We\'92ll have to go again Susie and\
take you.\'94\
\
\'93Ed you know very well I wont be well enough.\'94 She sat bolt upright,\
her hair hanging a straight faded yellow down her back. \'93Oh, I wish I\'92d\
die ... I wish I\'92d die, and not be a burden to you any more.... You\
hate me both of you. If you didnt hate me you wouldnt leave me alone\
like this.\'94 She choked and put her face in her hands. \'93Oh I wish I\'92d\
die,\'94 she sobbed through her fingers.\
\
\'93Now Susie for Heaven\'92s sakes, it\'92s wicked to talk like that.\'94 He put\
his arm round her and sat on the bed beside her.\
\
Crying quietly she dropped her head on his shoulder. Ellen stood\
staring at them out of round gray eyes. Then she started jumping up and\
down, chanting to herself, \'93Ellie\'92s goin to be a boy, Ellie\'92s goin to\
be a boy.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
With a long slow stride, limping a little from his blistered feet, Bud\
walked down Broadway, past empty lots where tin cans glittered among\
grass and sumach bushes and ragweed, between ranks of billboards and\
Bull Durham signs, past shanties and abandoned squatters\'92 shacks,\
past gulches heaped with wheelscarred rubbishpiles where dumpcarts\
were dumping ashes and clinkers, past knobs of gray outcrop where\
steamdrills continually tapped and nibbled, past excavations out of\
which wagons full of rock and clay toiled up plank roads to the\
street, until he was walking on new sidewalks along a row of yellow\
brick apartment houses, looking in the windows of grocery stores,\
Chinese laundries, lunchrooms, flower and vegetable shops, tailors\'92,\
delicatessens. Passing under a scaffolding in front of a new building,\
he caught the eye of an old man who sat on the edge of the sidewalk\
trimming oil lamps. Bud stood beside him, hitching up his pants;\
cleared his throat:\
\
\'93Say mister you couldnt tell a feller where a good place was to look\
for a job?\'94\
\
\'93Aint no good place to look for a job, young feller.... There\'92s jobs\
all right.... I\'92ll be sixty-five years old in a month and four days an\
I\'92ve worked sence I was five I reckon, an I aint found a good job yet.\'94\
\
\'93Anything that\'92s a job\'92ll do me.\'94\
\
\'93Got a union card?\'94\
\
\'93I aint got nothin.\'94\
\
\'93Cant git no job in the buildin trades without a union card,\'94 said\
the old man. He rubbed the gray bristles of his chin with the back\
of his hand and leaned over the lamps again. Bud stood staring into\
the dustreeking girder forest of the new building until he found the\
eyes of a man in a derby hat fixed on him through the window of the\
watchman\'92s shelter. He shuffled his feet uneasily and walked on. If I\
could git more into the center of things....\
\
At the next corner a crowd was collecting round a highslung white\
automobile. Clouds of steam poured out of its rear end. A policeman was\
holding up a small boy by the armpits. From the car a redfaced man with\
white walrus whiskers was talking angrily.\
\
\'93I tell you officer he threw a stone.... This sort of thing has got to\
stop. For an officer to countenance hoodlums and rowdies....\'94\
\
A woman with her hair done up in a tight bunch on top of her head was\
screaming, shaking her fist at the man in the car, \'93Officer he near run\
me down he did, he near run me down.\'94\
\
Bud edged up next to a young man in a butcher\'92s apron who had a\
baseball cap on backwards.\
\
\'93Wassa matter?\'94\
\
\'93Hell I dunno.... One o them automoebile riots I guess. Aint you read\
the paper? I dont blame em do you? What right have those golblamed\
automoebiles got racin round the city knockin down wimen an children?\'94\
\
\'93Gosh do they do that?\'94\
\
\'93Sure they do.\'94\
\
\'93Say ... er ... kin you tell me about where\'92s a good place to find out\
about gettin a job?\'94 The butcherboy threw back head and laughed.\
\
\'93Kerist I thought you was goin to ask for a handout.... I guess you\
aint a Newyorker.... I\'92ll tell you what to do. You keep right on down\
Broadway till you get to City Hall....\'94\
\
\'93Is that kinder the center of things?\'94\
\
\'93Sure it is.... An then you go upstairs and ask the Mayor.... Tell me\
there are some seats on the board of aldermen ...\'94\
\
\'93Like hell they are,\'94 growled Bud and walked away fast.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Roll ye babies ... roll ye lobsided sons o bitches.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it talk to em Slats.\'94\
\
\'93Come seven!\'94 Slats shot the bones out of his hand, brought the thumb\
along his sweaty fingers with a snap. \'93Aw hell.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re some great crapshooter I\'92ll say, Slats.\'94\
\
Dirty hands added each a nickel to the pile in the center of the circle\
of patched knees stuck forward. The five boys were sitting on their\
heels under a lamp on South Street.\
\
\'93Come on girlies we\'92re waitin for it.... Roll ye little bastards,\
goddam ye, roll.\'94\
\
\'93Cheeze it fellers! There\'92s Big Leonard an his gang acomin down the\
block.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d knock his block off for a ...\'94\
\
Four of them were already slouching off along the wharf, gradually\
scattering without looking back. The smallest boy with a chinless face\
shaped like a beak stayed behind quietly picking up the coins. Then he\
ran along the wall and vanished into the dark passageway between two\
houses. He flattened himself behind a chimney and waited. The confused\
voices of the gang broke into the passageway; then they had gone on\
down the street. The boy was counting the nickels in his hand. Ten.\
\'93Jez, that\'92s fifty cents.... I\'92ll tell \'92em Big Leonard scooped up the\
dough.\'94 His pockets had no bottoms, so he tied the nickels into one of\
his shirt tails.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
A goblet for Rhine wine hobnobbed with a champagne glass at each\
place along the glittering white oval table. On eight glossy white\
plates eight canap\'e9s of caviar were like rounds of black beads on the\
lettuceleaves, flanked by sections of lemon, sprinkled with a sparse\
chopping of onion and white of egg. \'93Beaucoup de soing and dont you\
forget it,\'94 said the old waiter puckering up his knobbly forehead. He\
was a short waddling man with a few black strands of hair plastered\
tight across a domed skull.\
\
\'93Awright.\'94 Emile nodded his head gravely. His collar was too tight for\
him. He was shaking a last bottle of champagne into the nickelbound\
bucket of ice on the serving-table.\
\
\'93Beaucoup de soing, sporca madonna.... Thisa guy trows money about lika\
confetti, see.... Gives tips, see. He\'92s a verra rich gentleman. He dont\
care how much he spend.\'94 Emile patted the crease of the tablecloth to\
flatten it. \'93Fais pas, como, \'e7a.... Your hand\'92s dirty, maybe leava\
mark.\'94\
\
Resting first on one foot then on the other they stood waiting, their\
napkins under their arms. From the restaurant below among the buttery\
smells of food and the tinkle of knives and forks and plates, came the\
softly gyrating sound of a waltz.\
\
When he saw the headwaiter bow outside the door Emile compressed his\
lips into a deferential smile. There was a longtoothed blond woman in\
a salmon operacloak swishing on the arm of a moonfaced man who carried\
his top hat ahead of him like a bumper; there was a little curlyhaired\
girl in blue who was showing her teeth and laughing, a stout woman in a\
tiara with a black velvet ribbon round her neck, a bottlenose, a long\
cigarcolored face ... shirtfronts, hands straightening white ties,\
black gleams on top hats and patent leather shoes; there was a weazlish\
man with gold teeth who kept waving his arms spitting out greetings in\
a voice like a crow\'92s and wore a diamond the size of a nickel in his\
shirtfront. The redhaired cloakroom girl was collecting the wraps. The\
old waiter nudged Emile. \'93He\'92s de big boss,\'94 he said out of the corner\
of his mouth as he bowed. Emile flattened himself against the wall as\
they shuffled rustled into the room. A whiff of patchouli when he drew\
his breath made him go suddenly hot to the roots of his hair.\
\
\'93But where\'92s Fifi Waters?\'94 shouted the man with the diamond stud.\
\
\'93She said she couldnt get here for a half an hour. I guess the Johnnies\
wont let her get by the stage door.\'94\
\
\'93Well we cant wait for her even if it is her birthday; never waited for\
anyone in my life.\'94 He stood a second running a roving eye over the\
women round the table, then shot his cuffs out a little further from\
the sleeves of his swallowtail coat, and abruptly sat down. The caviar\
vanished in a twinkling. \'93And waiter what about that Rhine wine coupe?\'94\
he croaked huskily. \'93De suite monsieur....\'94 Emile holding his breath\
and sucking in his cheeks, was taking away the plates. A frost came on\
the goblets as the old waiter poured out the coupe from a cut glass\
pitcher where floated mint and ice and lemon rind and long slivvers of\
cucumber.\
\
\'93Aha, this\'92ll do the trick.\'94 The man with the diamond stud raised his\
glass to his lips, smacked them and set it down with a slanting look\
at the woman next him. She was putting dabs of butter on bits of bread\
and popping them into her mouth, muttering all the while:\
\
\'93I can only eat the merest snack, only the merest snack.\'94\
\
\'93That dont keep you from drinkin Mary does it?\'94\
\
She let out a cackling laugh and tapped him on the shoulder with her\
closed fan. \'93O Lord, you\'92re a card, you are.\'94\
\
\'93Allume moi \'e7a, sporca madonna,\'94 hissed the old waiter in Emile\'92s ear.\
\
When he lit the lamps under the two chafing dishes on the serving table\
a smell of hot sherry and cream and lobster began to seep into the\
room. The air was hot, full of tinkle and perfume and smoke. After he\
had helped serve the lobster Newburg and refilled the glasses Emile\
leaned against the wall and ran his hand over his wet hair. His eyes\
slid along the plump shoulders of the woman in front of him and down\
the powdered back to where a tiny silver hook had come undone under the\
lace rushing. The baldheaded man next to her had his leg locked with\
hers. She was young, Emile\'92s age, and kept looking up into the man\'92s\
face with moist parted lips. It made Emile dizzy, but he couldn\'92t stop\
looking.\
\
\'93But what\'92s happened to the fair Fifi?\'94 creaked the man with the\
diamond stud through a mouthful of lobster. \'93I suppose that she made\
such a hit again this evening that our simple little party dont appeal\
to her.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s enough to turn any girl\'92s head.\'94\
\
\'93Well she\'92ll get the surprise of her young life if she expected us to\
wait. Haw, haw, haw,\'94 laughed the man with the diamond stud. \'93I never\
waited for anybody in my life and I\'92m not going to begin now.\'94\
\
Down the table the moonfaced man had pushed back his plate and was\
playing with the bracelet on the wrist of the woman beside him. \'93You\'92re\
the perfect Gibson girl tonight, Olga.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sitting for my portrait now,\'94 she said holding up her goblet\
against the light.\
\
\'93To Gibson?\'94\
\
\'93No to a real painter.\'94\
\
\'93By Gad I\'92ll buy it.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe you wont have a chance.\'94\
\
She nodded her blond pompadour at him.\
\
\'93You\'92re a wicked little tease, Olga.\'94\
\
She laughed keeping her lips tight over her long teeth.\
\
A man was leaning towards the man with the diamond stud, tapping with a\
stubby finger on the table.\
\
\'93No sir as a real estate proposition, Twentythird Street has\
crashed.... That\'92s generally admitted.... But what I want to talk to\
you about privately sometime Mr. Godalming, is this.... How\'92s all\
the big money in New York been made? Astor, Vanderbilt, Fish.... In\
real estate of course. Now it\'92s up to us to get in on the next great\
clean-up.... It\'92s almost here.... Buy Forty....\'94\
\
The man with the diamond stud raised one eyebrow and shook his head.\
\'93For one night on Beauty\'92s lap, O put gross care away ... or something\
of the sort.... Waiter why in holy hell are you so long with the\
champagne?\'94 He got to his feet, coughed in his hand and began to sing\
in his croaking voice:\
\
    O would the Atlantic were all champagne\
    Bright billows of champagne.\
\
Everybody clapped. The old waiter had just divided a baked Alaska and,\
his face like a beet, was prying out a stiff champagnecork. When the\
cork popped the lady in the tiara let out a yell. They toasted the man\
in the diamond stud.\
\
    For he\'92s a jolly good fellow ...\
\
\'93Now what kind of a dish d\'92ye call this?\'94 the man with the bottlenose\
leaned over and asked the girl next to him. Her black hair parted in\
the middle; she wore a palegreen dress with puffy sleeves. He winked\
slowly and then stared hard into her black eyes.\
\
\'93This here\'92s the fanciest cookin I ever put in my mouth.... D\'92ye\
know young leddy, I dont come to this town often....\'94 He gulped\
down the rest of his glass. \'93An when I do I usually go away kinder\
disgusted....\'94 His look bright and feverish from the champagne explored\
the contours of her neck and shoulders and roamed down a bare arm. \'93But\
this time I kinder think....\'94\
\
\'93It must be a great life prospecting,\'94 she interrupted flushing.\
\
\'93It was a great life in the old days, a rough life but a man\'92s life....\
I\'92m glad I made my pile in the old days.... Wouldnt have the same luck\
now.\'94\
\
She looked up at him. \'93How modest you are to call it luck.\'94\
\
Emile was standing outside the door of the private room. There was\
nothing more to serve. The redhaired girl from the cloakroom walked by\
with a big flounced cape on her arm. He smiled, tried to catch her eye.\
She sniffed and tossed her nose in the air. Wont look at me because I\'92m\
a waiter. When I make some money I\'92ll show \'92em.\
\
\'93Dis; tella Charlie two more bottle Moet and Chandon, Gout Americain,\'94\
came the old waiter\'92s hissing voice in his ear.\
\
The moonfaced man was on his feet. \'93Ladies and Gentlemen....\'94\
\
\'93Silence in the pigsty ...\'94 piped up a voice.\
\
\'93The big sow wants to talk,\'94 said Olga under her breath.\
\
\'93Ladies and gentlemen owing to the unfortunate absence of our star of\
Bethlehem and fulltime act....\'94\
\
\'93Gilly dont blaspheme,\'94 said the lady with the tiara.\
\
\'93Ladies and gentlemen, unaccustomed as I am....\'94\
\
\'93Gilly you\'92re drunk.\'94\
\
\'93... Whether the tide ... I mean whether the waters be with us or\
against us...\'94\
\
Somebody yanked at his coat-tails and the moonfaced man sat down\
suddenly in his chair.\
\
\'93It\'92s terrible,\'94 said the lady in the tiara addressing herself to a\
man with a long face the color of tobacco who sat at the end of the\
table ... \'93It\'92s terrible, Colonel, the way Gilly gets blasphemous when\
he\'92s been drinking...\'94\
\
The Colonel was meticulously rolling the tinfoil off a cigar. \'93Dear me,\
you dont say?\'94 he drawled. Above the bristly gray mustache his face was\
expressionless. \'93There\'92s a most dreadful story about poor old Atkins,\
Elliott Atkins who used to be with Mansfield...\'94\
\
\'93Indeed?\'94 said the Colonel icily as he slit the end of the cigar with a\
small pearlhandled penknife.\
\
\'93Say Chester did you hear that Mabie Evans was making a hit?\'94\
\
\'93Honestly Olga I dont see how she does it. She has no figure...\'94\
\
\'93Well he made a speech, drunk as a lord you understand, one night when\
they were barnstorming in Kansas...\'94\
\
\'93She cant sing...\'94\
\
\'93The poor fellow never did go very strong in the bright lights...\'94\
\
\'93She hasnt the slightest particle of figure...\'94\
\
\'93And made a sort of Bob Ingersoll speech...\'94\
\
\'93The dear old feller.... Ah I knew him well out in Chicago in the old\
days...\'94\
\
\'93You dont say.\'94 The Colonel held a lighted match carefully to the end\
of his cigar...\
\
\'93And there was a terrible flash of lightning and a ball of fire came in\
one window and went out the other.\'94\
\
\'93Was he ... er ... killed?\'94 The Colonel sent a blue puff of smoke\
towards the ceiling.\
\
\'93What, did you say Bob Ingersoll had been struck by lightning?\'94 cried\
Olga shrilly. \'93Serve him right the horrid atheist.\'94\
\
\'93No not exactly, but it scared him into a realization of the important\
things of life and now he\'92s joined the Methodist church.\'94\
\
\'93Funny how many actors get to be ministers.\'94\
\
\'93Cant get an audience any other way,\'94 creaked the man with the diamond\
stud.\
\
The two waiters hovered outside the door listening to the racket\
inside. \'93Tas de sacr\'e9s cochons ... sporca madonna!\'94 hissed the old\
waiter. Emile shrugged his shoulders. \'93That brunette girl make eyes at\
you all night...\'94 He brought his face near Emile\'92s and winked. \'93Sure,\
maybe you pick up somethin good.\'94\
\
\'93I dont want any of them or their dirty diseases either.\'94\
\
The old waiter slapped his thigh. \'93No young men nowadays.... When I was\
young man I take heap o chances.\'94\
\
\'93They dont even look at you ...\'94 said Emile through clenched teeth. \'93An\
animated dress suit that\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93Wait a minute, you learn by and by.\'94\
\
The door opened. They bowed respectfully towards the diamond stud.\
Somebody had drawn a pair of woman\'92s legs on his shirtfront. There was\
a bright flush on each of his cheeks. The lower lid of one eye sagged,\
giving his weasle face a quizzical lobsided look.\
\
\'93Wazzahell, Marco wazzahell?\'94 he was muttering. \'93We aint got a thing to\
drink.... Bring the Atlantic Ozz-shen and two quarts.\'94\
\
\'93De suite monsieur....\'94 The old waiter bowed. \'93Emile tell Auguste,\
immediatement et bien frapp\'e9.\'94\
\
As Emile went down the corridor he could hear singing.\
\
    O would the Atlantic were all champagne\
    Bright bi-i-i....\
\
The moonface and the bottlenose were coming back from the lavatory\
reeling arm in arm among the palms in the hall.\
\
\'93These damn fools make me sick.\'94\
\
\'93Yessir these aint the champagne suppers we used to have in Frisco in\
the ole days.\'94\
\
\'93Ah those were great days those.\'94\
\
\'93By the way,\'94 the moonfaced man steadied himself against the wall,\
\'93Holyoke ole fella, did you shee that very nobby little article on\
the rubber trade I got into the morning papers.... That\'92ll make the\
investors nibble ... like lil mishe.\'94\
\
\'93Whash you know about rubber?... The stuff aint no good.\'94\
\
\'93You wait an shee, Holyoke ole fella or you looshing opportunity of\
your life.... Drunk or sober I can smell money ... on the wind.\'94\
\
\'93Why aint you got any then?\'94 The bottlenosed man\'92s beefred face went\
purple; he doubled up letting out great hoots of laughter.\
\
\'93Because I always let my friends in on my tips,\'94 said the other man\
soberly. \'93Hay boy where\'92s zis here private dinin room?\'94\
\
\'93Par ici monsieur.\'94\
\
A red accordionpleated dress swirled past them, a little oval face\
framed by brown flat curls, pearly teeth in an open-mouthed laugh.\
\
\'93Fifi Waters,\'94 everyone shouted. \'93Why my darlin lil Fifi, come to my\
arms.\'94\
\
She was lifted onto a chair where she stood jiggling from one foot to\
the other, champagne dripping out of a tipped glass.\
\
\'93Merry Christmas.\'94\
\
\'93Happy New Year.\'94\
\
\'93Many returns of the day....\'94\
\
A fair young man who had followed her in was reeling intricately round\
the table singing:\
\
    O we went to the animals\'92 fair\
    And the birds and the beasts were there\
    And the big baboon\
    By the light of the moon\
    Was combing his auburn hair.\
\
\'93Hoopla,\'94 cried Fifi Waters and mussed the gray hair of the man with\
the diamond stud. \'93Hoopla.\'94 She jumped down with a kick, pranced round\
the room, kicking high with her skirts fluffed up round her knees.\
\
\'93Oh la la ze French high kicker!\'94\
\
\'93Look out for the Pony Ballet.\'94\
\
Her slender legs, shiny black silk stockings tapering to red rosetted\
slippers flashed in the men\'92s faces.\
\
\'93She\'92s a mad thing,\'94 cried the lady in the tiara.\
\
Hoopla. Holyoke was swaying in the doorway with his top hat tilted over\
the glowing bulb of his nose. She let out a whoop and kicked it off.\
\
\'93It\'92s a goal,\'94 everyone cried.\
\
\'93For crissake you kicked me in the eye.\'94\
\
She stared at him a second with round eyes and then burst into tears\
on the broad shirtfront of the diamond stud. \'93I wont be insulted like\
that,\'94 she sobbed.\
\
\'93Rub the other eye.\'94\
\
\'93Get a bandage someone.\'94\
\
\'93Goddam it she may have put his eye out.\'94\
\
\'93Call a cab there waiter.\'94\
\
\'93Where\'92s a doctor?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s hell to pay ole fella.\'94\
\
A handkerchief full of tears and blood pressed to his eye the\
bottlenosed man stumbled out. The men and women crowded through the\
door after him; last went the blond young man, reeling and singing:\
\
    An the big baboon by the light of the moon\
    Was combing his auburn hair.\
\
Fifi Waters was sobbing with her head on the table.\
\
\'93Dont cry Fifi,\'94 said the Colonel who was still sitting where he had\
sat all the evening. \'93Here\'92s something I rather fancy might do you\
good.\'94 He pushed a glass of champagne towards her down the table.\
\
She sniffled and began drinking it in little sips. \'93Hullo Roger, how\'92s\
the boy?\'94\
\
\'93The boy\'92s quite well thank you.... Rather bored, dont you know? An\
evening with such infernal bounders....\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m hungry.\'94\
\
\'93There doesnt seem to be anything left to eat.\'94\
\
\'93I didnt know you\'92d be here or I\'92d have come earlier, honest.\'94\
\
\'93Would you indeed?... Now that\'92s very nice.\'94\
\
The long ash dropped from the Colonel\'92s cigar; he got to his feet. \'93Now\
Fifi, I\'92ll call a cab and we\'92ll go for a ride in the Park....\'94\
\
She drank down her champagne and nodded brightly. \'93Dear me it\'92s four\
o\'92clock....\'94 \'93You have the proper wraps haven\'92t you?\'94\
\
She nodded again.\
\
\'93Splendid Fifi ... I say you are in form.\'94 The Colonel\'92s cigarcolored\
face was unraveling in smiles. \'93Well, come along.\'94\
\
She looked about her in a dazed way. \'93Didnt I come with somebody?\'94\
\
\'93Quite unnecessary!\'94\
\
In the hall they came upon the fair young man quietly vomiting into a\
firebucket under an artificial palm.\
\
\'93Oh let\'92s leave him,\'94 she said wrinkling up her nose.\
\
\'93Quite unnecessary,\'94 said the Colonel.\
\
Emile brought their wraps. The redhaired girl had gone home.\
\
\'93Look here, boy.\'94 The Colonel waved his cane. \'93Call me a cab please....\
Be sure the horse is decent and the driver is sober.\'94\
\
\'93De suite monsieur.\'94\
\
The sky beyond roofs and chimneys was the blue of a sapphire. The\
Colonel took three or four deep sniffs of the dawnsmelling air and\
threw his cigar into the gutter. \'93Suppose we have a bit of breakfast at\
Cleremont. I haven\'92t had anything fit to eat all night. That beastly\
sweet champagne, ugh!\'94\
\
Fifi giggled. After the Colonel had examined the horse\'92s fetlocks and\
patted his head, they climbed into the cab. The Colonel fitted in Fifi\
carefully under his arm and they drove off. Emile stood a second in the\
door of the restaurant uncrumpling a five dollar bill. He was tired and\
his insteps ached.\
\
When Emile came out of the back door of the restaurant he found Congo\
waiting for him sitting on the doorstep. Congo\'92s skin had a green\
chilly look under the frayed turned up coatcollar.\
\
\'93This is my friend,\'94 Emile said to Marco. \'93Came over on the same boat.\'94\
\
\'93You havent a bottle of fine under your coat have you? Sapristi I\'92ve\
seen some chickens not half bad come out of this place.\'94\
\
\'93But what\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93Lost my job that\'92s all.... I wont have to take any more off that guy.\
Come over and drink a coffee.\'94\
\
They ordered coffee and doughnuts in a lunchwagon on a vacant lot.\
\
\'93Eh bien you like it this sacred pig of a country?\'94 asked Marco.\
\
\'93Why not? I like it anywhere. It\'92s all the same, in France you are paid\
badly and live well; here you are paid well and live badly.\'94\
\
\'93Questo paese e completamente soto sopra.\'94\
\
\'93I think I\'92ll go to sea again....\'94\
\
\'93Say why de hell doan yous guys loin English?\'94 said the man with a\
cauliflower face who slapped the three mugs of coffee down on the\
counter.\
\
\'93If we talk Engleesh,\'94 snapped Marco \'93maybe you no lika what we say.\'94\
\
\'93Why did they fire you?\'94\
\
\'93Merde. I dont know. I had an argument with the old camel who runs\
the place.... He lived next door to the stables; as well as washing\
the carriages he made me scrub the floors in his house.... His wife,\
she had a face like this.\'94 Congo sucked in his lips and tried to look\
crosseyed.\
\
Marco laughed. \'93Santissima Maria putana!\'94\
\
\'93How did you talk to them?\'94\
\
\'93They pointed to things; then I nodded my head and said Awright. I went\
there at eight and worked till six and they gave me every day more\
filthy things to do.... Last night they tell me to clean out the toilet\
in the bathroom. I shook my head.... That\'92s woman\'92s work.... She got\
very angry and started screeching. Then I began to learn Angleesh....\
Go awright to \'92ell, I says to her.... Then the old man comes and chases\
me out into a street with a carriage whip and says he wont pay me my\
week.... While we were arguing he got a policeman, and when I try to\
explain to the policeman that the old man owed me ten dollars for the\
week, he says Beat it you lousy wop, and cracks me on the coco with his\
nightstick.... Merde alors...\'94\
\
Marco was red in the face. \'93He call you lousy wop?\'94\
\
Congo nodded his mouth full of doughnut.\
\
\'93Notten but shanty Irish himself,\'94 muttered Marco in English. \'93I\'92m fed\
up with this rotten town....\
\
\'93It\'92s the same all over the world, the police beating us up, rich\
people cheating us out of their starvation wages, and who\'92s fault?...\
Dio cane! Your fault, my fault, Emile\'92s fault....\'94\
\
\'93We didn\'92t make the world.... They did or maybe God did.\'94\
\
\'93God\'92s on their side, like a policeman.... When the day comes we\'92ll\
kill God.... I am an anarchist.\'94\
\
Congo hummed \'93les bourgeois \'e0 la lanterne nom de dieu.\'94\
\
\'93Are you one of us?\'94\
\
Congo shrugged his shoulders. \'93I\'92m not a catholic or a protestant;\
I haven\'92t any money and I haven\'92t any work. Look at that.\'94 Congo\
pointed with a dirty finger to a long rip on his trouserknee. \'93That\'92s\
anarchist.... Hell I\'92m going out to Senegal and get to be a nigger.\'94\
\
\'93You look like one already,\'94 laughed Emile.\
\
\'93That\'92s why they call me Congo.\'94\
\
\'93But that\'92s all silly,\'94 went on Emile. \'93People are all the same. It\'92s\
only that some people get ahead and others dont.... That\'92s why I came\
to New York.\'94\
\
\'93Dio cane I think that too twentyfive years ago.... When you\'92re old\
like me you know better. Doesnt the shame of it get you sometimes?\
Here\'94 ... he tapped with his knuckles on his stiff shirtfront.... \'93I\
feel it hot and like choking me here.... Then I say to myself Courage\
our day is coming, our day of blood.\'94\
\
\'93I say to myself,\'94 said Emile \'93When you have some money old kid.\'94\
\
\'93Listen, before I leave Torino when I go last time to see the mama I go\
to a meetin of comrades.... A fellow from Capua got up to speak ... a\
very handsome man, tall and very thin.... He said that there would be\
no more force when after the revolution nobody lived off another man\'92s\
work.... Police, governments, armies, presidents, kings ... all that\
is force. Force is not real; it is illusion. The working man makes all\
that himself because he believes it. The day that we stop believing in\
money and property it will be like a dream when we wake up. We will not\
need bombs or barricades.... Religion, politics, democracy all that is\
to keep us asleep.... Everybody must go round telling people: Wake up!\'94\
\
\'93When you go down into the street I\'92ll be with you,\'94 said Congo.\
\
\'93You know that man I tell about?... That man Errico Malatesta, in Italy\
greatest man after Garibaldi.... He give his whole life in jail and\
exile, in Egypt, in England, in South America, everywhere.... If I\
could be a man like that, I dont care what they do; they can string me\
up, shoot me ... I dont care ... I am very happy.\'94\
\
\'93But he must be crazy a feller like that,\'94 said Emile slowly. \'93He must\
be crazy.\'94\
\
Marco gulped down the last of his coffee. \'93Wait a minute. You are too\
young. You will understand.... One by one they make us understand....\
And remember what I say.... Maybe I\'92m too old, maybe I\'92m dead, but it\
will come when the working people awake from slavery.... You will walk\
out in the street and the police will run away, you will go into a bank\
and there will be money poured out on the floor and you wont stoop\
to pick it up, no more good.... All over the world we are preparing.\
There are comrades even in China.... Your Commune in France was the\
beginning ... socialism failed. It\'92s for the anarchists to strike the\
next blow.... If we fail there will be others....\'94\
\
Congo yawned, \'93I am sleepy as a dog.\'94\
\
Outside the lemoncolored dawn was drenching the empty streets,\
dripping from cornices, from the rails of fire escapes, from the rims\
of ashcans, shattering the blocks of shadow between buildings. The\
streetlights were out. At a corner they looked up Broadway that was\
narrow and scorched as if a fire had gutted it.\
\
\'93I never see the dawn,\'94 said Marco, his voice rattling in his throat,\
\'93that I dont say to myself perhaps ... perhaps today.\'94 He cleared his\
throat and spat against the base of a lamppost; then he moved away from\
them with his waddling step, taking hard short sniffs of the cool air.\
\
\'93Is that true, Congo, about shipping again?\'94\
\
\'93Why not? Got to see the world a bit...\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll miss you.... I\'92ll have to find another room.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll find another friend to bunk with.\'94\
\
\'93But if you do that you\'92ll stay a sailor all your life.\'94\
\
\'93What does it matter? When you are rich and married I\'92ll come and visit\
you.\'94\
\
They were walking down Sixth Avenue. An L train roared above their\
heads leaving a humming rattle to fade among the girders after it had\
passed.\
\
\'93Why dont you get another job and stay on a while?\'94\
\
Congo produced two bent cigarettes out of the breast pocket of his\
coat, handed one to Emile, struck a match on the seat of his trousers,\
and let the smoke out slowly through his nose. \'93I\'92m fed up with it\
here I tell you....\'94 He brought his flat hand up across his Adam\'92s\
apple, \'93up to here.... Maybe I\'92ll go home an visit the little girls\
of Bordeaux.... At least they are not all made of whalebone.... I\'92ll\
engage myself as a volunteer in the navy and wear a red pompom.... The\
girls like that. That\'92s the only life.... Get drunk and raise cain\
payday and see the extreme orient.\'94\
\
\'93And die of the syph in a hospital at thirty....\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s it matter?... Your body renews itself every seven years.\'94\
\
The steps of their rooming house smelled of cabbage and stale beer.\
They stumbled up yawning.\
\
\'93Waiting\'92s a rotton tiring job.... Makes the soles of your feet\
ache.... Look it\'92s going to be a fine day; I can see the sun on the\
watertank opposite.\'94\
\
Congo pulled off his shoes and socks and trousers and curled up in bed\
like a cat.\
\
\'93Those dirty shades let in all the light,\'94 muttered Emile as he\
stretched himself on the outer edge of the bed. He lay tossing uneasily\
on the rumpled sheets. Congo\'92s breathing beside him was low and\
regular. If I was only like that, thought Emile, never worrying about a\
thing.... But it\'92s not that way you get along in the world. My God it\'92s\
stupid.... Marco\'92s gaga the old fool.\
\
And he lay on his back looking up at the rusty stains on the ceiling,\
shuddering every time an elevated train shook the room. Sacred name\
of God I must save up my money. When he turned over the knob on the\
bedstead rattled and he remembered Marco\'92s hissing husky voice: I never\
see the dawn that I dont say to myself perhaps.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93If you\'92ll excuse me just a moment Mr. Olafson,\'94 said the houseagent.\
\'93While you and the madam are deciding about the apartment...\'94 They\
stood side by side in the empty room, looking out the window at the\
slatecolored Hudson and the warships at anchor and a schooner tacking\
upstream.\
\
Suddenly she turned to him with glistening eyes; \'93O Billy, just think\
of it.\'94\
\
He took hold of her shoulders and drew her to him slowly. \'93You can\
smell the sea, almost.\'94\
\
\'93Just think Billy that we are going to live here, on Riverside Drive.\
I\'92ll have to have a day at home ... Mrs. William C. Olafson, 218\
Riverside Drive.... I wonder if it is all right to put the address on\
our visiting cards.\'94 She took his hand and led him through the empty\
cleanswept rooms that no one had ever lived in. He was a big shambling\
man with eyes of a washed out blue deepset in a white infantile head.\
\
\'93It\'92s a lot of money Bertha.\'94\
\
\'93We can afford it now, of course we can. We must live up to our\
income.... Your position demands it.... And think how happy we\'92ll be.\'94\
\
The house agent came back down the hall rubbing his hands. \'93Well, well,\
well ... Ah I see that we\'92ve come to a favorable decision.... You are\
very wise too, not a finer location in the city of New York and in a\
few months you wont be able to get anything out this way for love or\
money....\'94\
\
\'93Yes we\'92ll take it from the first of the month.\'94\
\
\'93Very good.... You wont regret your decision, Mr. Olafson.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll send you a check for the amount in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93At your own convenience.... And what is your present address\
please....\'94 The houseagent took out a notebook and moistened a stub of\
pencil with his tongue.\
\
\'93You had better put Hotel Astor.\'94 She stepped in front of her husband.\
\
\'93Our things are stored just at the moment.\'94\
\
Mr. Olafson turned red.\
\
\'93And ... er ... we\'92d like the names of two references please in the\
city of New York.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m with Keating and Bradley, Sanitary Engineers, 43 Park Avenue...\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s just been made assistant general manager,\'94 added Mrs. Olafson.\
\
When they got out on the Drive walking downtown against a tussling wind\
she cried out: \'93Darling I\'92m so happy.... It\'92s really going to be worth\
living now.\'94\
\
\'93But why did you tell him we lived at the Astor?\'94\
\
\'93I couldnt tell him we lived in the Bronx could I? He\'92d have thought we\
were Jews and wouldnt have rented us the apartment.\'94\
\
\'93But you know I dont like that sort of thing.\'94\
\
\'93Well we\'92ll just move down to the Astor for the rest of the week, if\
you\'92re feeling so truthful.... I\'92ve never in my life stopped in a big\
downtown hotel.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Bertha it\'92s the principle of the thing.... I don\'92t like you to be\
like that.\'94\
\
She turned and looked at him with twitching nostrils. \'93You\'92re so\
nambypamby, Billy.... I wish to heavens I\'92d married a man for a\
husband.\'94\
\
He took her by the arm. \'93Let\'92s go up here,\'94 he said gruffly with his\
face turned away.\
\
They walked up a cross street between buildinglots. At a corner the\
rickety half of a weatherboarded farmhouse was still standing. There\
was half a room with blueflowered paper eaten by brown stains on the\
walls, a smoked fireplace, a shattered builtin cupboard, and an iron\
bedstead bent double.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Plates slip endlessly through Bud\'92s greasy fingers. Smell of swill\
and hot soapsuds. Twice round with the little mop, dip, rinse and\
pile in the rack for the longnosed Jewish boy to wipe. Knees wet from\
spillings, grease creeping up his forearms, elbows cramped.\
\
\'93Hell this aint no job for a white man.\'94\
\
\'93I dont care so long as I eat,\'94 said the Jewish boy above the rattle of\
dishes and the clatter and seething of the range where three sweating\
cooks fried eggs and ham and hamburger steak and browned potatoes and\
cornedbeef hash.\
\
\'93Sure I et all right,\'94 said Bud and ran his tongue round his teeth\
dislodging a sliver of salt meat that he mashed against his palate with\
his tongue. Twice round with the little mop, dip, rinse and pile in\
the rack for the longnosed Jewish boy to wipe. There was a lull. The\
Jewish boy handed Bud a cigarette. They stood leaning against the sink.\
\
\'93Aint no way to make money dishwashing.\'94 The cigarette wabbled on the\
Jewish boy\'92s heavy lip as he spoke.\
\
\'93Aint no job for a white man nohow,\'94 said Bud. \'93Waitin\'92s better, they\'92s\
the tips.\'94\
\
A man in a brown derby came in through the swinging door from the\
lunchroom. He was a bigjawed man with pigeyes and a long cigar sticking\
straight out of the middle of his mouth. Bud caught his eye and felt\
the cold glint twisting his bowels.\
\
\'93Whosat?\'94 he whispered.\
\
\'93Dunno.... Customer I guess.\'94\
\
\'93Dont he look to you like one o them detectives?\'94\
\
\'93How de hell should I know? I aint never been in jail.\'94 The Jewish boy\
turned red and stuck out his jaw.\
\
The busboy set down a new pile of dirty dishes. Twice round with the\
little mop, dip, rinse and pile in the rack. When the man in the brown\
derby passed back through the kitchen, Bud kept his eyes on his red\
greasy hands. What the hell even if he is a detective.... When Bud had\
finished the batch, he strolled to the door wiping his hands, took\
his coat and hat from the hook and slipped out the side door past the\
garbage cans out into the street. Fool to jump two hours pay. In an\
optician\'92s window the clock was at twentyfive past two. He walked down\
Broadway, past Lincoln Square, across Columbus Circle, further downtown\
towards the center of things where it\'92d be more crowded.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
She lay with her knees doubled up to her chin, the nightgown pulled\
tight under her toes.\
\
\'93Now straighten out and go to sleep dear.... Promise mother you\'92ll go\
to sleep.\'94\
\
\'93Wont daddy come and kiss me good night?\'94\
\
\'93He will when he comes in; he\'92s gone back down to the office and\
mother\'92s going to Mrs. Spingarn\'92s to play euchre.\'94\
\
\'93When\'92ll daddy be home?\'94\
\
\'93Ellie I said go to sleep.... I\'92ll leave the light.\'94\
\
\'93Dont mummy, it makes shadows.... When\'92ll daddy be home?\'94\
\
\'93When he gets good and ready.\'94 She was turning down the gaslight.\
Shadows out of the corners joined wings and rushed together. \'93Good\
night Ellen.\'94 The streak of light of the door narrowed behind mummy,\
slowly narrowed to a thread up and along the top. The knob clicked; the\
steps went away down the hall; the front door slammed. A clock ticked\
somewhere in the silent room; outside the apartment, outside the house,\
wheels and gallumping of hoofs, trailing voices; the roar grew. It was\
black except for the two strings of light that made an upside down L in\
the corner of the door.\
\
Ellie wanted to stretch out her feet but she was afraid to. She didnt\
dare take her eyes from the upside down L in the corner of the door. If\
she closed her eyes the light would go out. Behind the bed, out of the\
windowcurtains, out of the closet, from under the table shadows nudged\
creakily towards her. She held on tight to her ankles, pressed her chin\
in between her knees. The pillow bulged with shadow, rummaging shadows\
were slipping into the bed. If she closed her eyes the light would go\
out.\
\
Black spiraling roar outside was melting through the walls making the\
cuddled shadows throb. Her tongue clicked against her teeth like the\
ticking of the clock. Her arms and legs were stiff; her neck was stiff;\
she was going to yell. Yell above the roaring and the rattat outside,\
yell to make daddy hear, daddy come home. She drew in her breath and\
shrieked again. Make daddy come home. The roaring shadows staggered and\
danced, the shadows lurched round and round. Then she was crying, her\
eyes were full of safe warm tears, they were running over her cheeks\
and into her ears. She turned over and lay crying with her face in the\
pillow.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The gaslamps tremble a while down the purplecold streets and then go\
out under the lurid dawn. Gus McNiel, the sleep still gumming his eyes,\
walks beside his wagon swinging a wire basket of milkbottles, stopping\
at doors, collecting the empties, climbing chilly stairs, remembering\
grades A and B and pints of cream and buttermilk, while the sky behind\
cornices, tanks, roofpeaks, chimneys becomes rosy and yellow. Hoarfrost\
glistens on doorsteps and curbs. The horse with dangling head lurches\
jerkily from door to door. There begin to be dark footprints on the\
frosty pavement. A heavy brewers\'92 dray rumbles down the street.\
\
\'93Howdy Moike, a little chilled are ye?\'94 shouts Gus McNiel at a cop\
threshing his arms on the corner of Eighth Avenue.\
\
\'93Howdy Gus. Cows still milkin\'92?\'94\
\
It\'92s broad daylight when he finally slaps the reins down on the\
gelding\'92s threadbare rump and starts back to the dairy, empties\
bouncing and jiggling in the cart behind him. At Ninth Avenue a train\
shoots overhead clattering downtown behind a little green engine that\
emits blobs of smoke white and dense as cottonwool to melt in the raw\
air between the stiff blackwindowed houses. The first rays of the sun\
pick out the gilt lettering of DANIEL McGILLYCUDDY\'92S WINES AND LIQUORS\
at the corner of Tenth Avenue. Gus McNiel\'92s tongue is dry and the\
dawn has a salty taste in his mouth. A can o beer\'92d be the makin of\
a guy a cold mornin like this. He takes a turn with the reins round\
the whip and jumps over the wheel. His numb feet sting when they hit\
the pavement. Stamping to get the blood back into his toes he shoves\
through the swinging doors.\
\
\'93Well I\'92ll be damned if it aint the milkman bringin us a pint o cream\
for our coffee.\'94 Gus spits into the newly polished cuspidor beside the\
bar.\
\
\'93Boy, I got a thoist on me....\'94\
\
\'93Been drinkin too much milk again, Gus, I\'92ll warrant,\'94 roars the\
barkeep out of a square steak face.\
\
The saloon smells of brasspolish and fresh sawdust. Through an open\
window a streak of ruddy sunlight caresses the rump of a naked lady who\
reclines calm as a hardboiled egg on a bed of spinach in a giltframed\
picture behind the bar.\
\
\'93Well Gus what\'92s yer pleasure a foine cold mornin loike this?\'94\
\
\'93I guess beer\'92ll do, Mac.\'94\
\
The foam rises in the glass, trembles up, slops over. The barkeep cuts\
across the top with a wooden scoop, lets the foam settle a second, then\
puts the glass under the faintly wheezing spigot again. Gus is settling\
his heel comfortably against the brass rail.\
\
\'93Well how\'92s the job?\'94\
\
Gus gulps the glass of beer and makes a mark on his neck with his flat\
hand before wiping his mouth with it. \'93Full up to the neck wid it....\
I tell yer what I\'92m goin to do, I\'92m goin to go out West, take up free\
land in North Dakota or somewhere an raise wheat.... I\'92m pretty handy\
round a farm.... This here livin in the city\'92s no good.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92ll Nellie take that?\'94\
\
\'93She wont cotton to it much at foist, loikes her comforts of home an\
all that she\'92s been used to, but I think she\'92ll loike it foine onct\
she\'92s out there an all. This aint no loife for her nor me neyther.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re right there. This town\'92s goin to hell.... Me and the misses\'92ll\
sell out here some day soon I guess. If we could buy a noice genteel\
restaurant uptown or a roadhouse, that\'92s what\'92d suit us. Got me eye on\
a little property out Bronxville way, within easy drivin distance.\'94 He\
lifts a malletshaped fist meditatively to his chin. \'93I\'92m sick o bouncin\
these goddam drunks every night. Whade hell did I get outen the ring\
for xep to stop fightin? Jus last night two guys starts asluggin an I\
has to mix it up with both of em to clear the place out.... I\'92m sick o\
fighten every drunk on Tenth Avenoo.... Have somethin on the house?\'94\
\
\'93Jez I\'92m afraid Nellie\'92ll smell it on me.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, niver moind that. Nellie ought to be used to a bit o drinkin. Her\
ole man loikes it well enough.\'94\
\
\'93But honest Mac I aint been slopped once since me weddinday.\'94\
\
\'93I dont blame ye. She\'92s a real sweet girl Nellie is. Those little\
spitcurls o hers\'92d near drive a feller crazy.\'94\
\
The second beer sends a foamy acrid flush to Gus\'92s fingertips. Laughing\
he slaps his thigh.\
\
\'93She\'92s a pippin, that\'92s what she is Gus, so ladylike an all.\'94\
\
\'93Well I reckon I\'92ll be gettin back to her.\'94\
\
\'93You lucky young divil to be goin home to bed wid your wife when we\'92re\
all startin to go to work.\'94\
\
Gus\'92s red face gets redder. His ears tingle. \'93Sometimes she\'92s abed\
yet.... So long Mac.\'94 He stamps out into the street again.\
\
The morning has grown bleak. Leaden clouds have settled down over the\
city. \'93Git up old skin an bones,\'94 shouts Gus jerking at the gelding\'92s\
head. Eleventh Avenue is full of icy dust, of grinding rattle of wheels\
and scrape of hoofs on the cobblestones. Down the railroad tracks comes\
the clang of a locomotive bell and the clatter of shunting freightcars.\
Gus is in bed with his wife talking gently to her: Look here Nellie,\
you wouldn\'92t moind movin West would yez? I\'92ve filed application for\
free farmin land in the state o North Dakota, black soil land where we\
can make a pile o money in wheat; some fellers git rich in foive good\
crops.... Healthier for the kids anyway.... \'93Hello Moike!\'94 There\'92s\
poor old Moike still on his beat. Cold work bein a cop. Better be a\
wheatfarmer an have a big farmhouse an barns an pigs an horses an cows\
an chickens.... Pretty curlyheaded Nellie feedin the chickens at the\
kitchen door....\
\
\'93Hay dere for crissake....\'94 a man is yelling at Gus from the curb.\
\'93Look out for de cars!\'94\
\
A yelling mouth gaping under a visored cap, a green flag waving.\
\'93Godamighty I\'92m on the tracks.\'94 He yanks the horse\'92s head round. A\
crash rips the wagon behind him. Cars, the gelding, a green flag, red\
houses whirl and crumble into blackness.\
\
\
\
\
III. Dollars\
\
          _All along the rails there were faces; in the portholes\
          there were faces. Leeward a stale smell came from the tubby\
          steamer that rode at anchor listed a little to one side\
          with the yellow quarantine flag drooping at the foremast._\
\
          _\'93I\'92d give a million dollars,\'94 said the old man resting on\
          his oars, \'93to know what they come for.\'94_\
\
          _\'93Just for that pop,\'94 said the young man who sat in the\
          stern. \'93Aint it the land of opportoonity?\'94_\
\
          _\'93One thing I do know,\'94 said the old man. \'93When I was a boy\
          it was wild Irish came in the spring with the first run of\
          shad.... Now there aint no more shad, an them folks, Lord\
          knows where they come from.\'94_\
\
          _\'93It\'92s the land of opportoonity.\'94_\
\
\
A leanfaced young man with steel eyes and a thin highbridged nose\
sat back in a swivel chair with his feet on his new mahogany-finish\
desk. His skin was sallow, his lips gently pouting. He wriggled in the\
swivel chair watching the little scratches his shoes were making on the\
veneer. Damn it I dont care. Then he sat up suddenly making the swivel\
shriek and banged on his knee with his clenched fist. \'93Results,\'94 he\
shouted. Three months I\'92ve sat rubbing my tail on this swivel chair....\
What\'92s the use of going through lawschool and being admitted to the\
bar if you cant find anybody to practice on? He frowned at the gold\
lettering through the groundglass door.\
\
                             NIWDLAB EGROEG\
                            WAL-TA-YENROTTA\
\
Niwdlab, Welsh. He jumped to his feet. I\'92ve read that damn sign\
backwards every day for three months. I\'92m going crazy. I\'92ll go out and\
eat lunch.\
\
He straightened his vest and brushed some flecks of dust off his shoes\
with a handkerchief, then, contracting his face into an expression of\
intense preoccupation, he hurried out of his office, trotted down the\
stairs and out onto Maiden Lane. In front of the chophouse he saw the\
headline on a pink extra; JAPS THROWN BACK FROM MUKDEN. He bought the\
paper and folded it under his arm as he went in through the swinging\
door. He took a table and pored over the bill of fare. Mustn\'92t be\
extravagant now. \'93Waiter you can bring me a New England boiled dinner,\
a slice of applepie and coffee.\'94 The longnosed waiter wrote the order\
on his slip looking at it sideways with a careful frown.... That\'92s the\
lunch for a lawyer without any practice. Baldwin cleared his throat\
and unfolded the paper.... Ought to liven up the Russian bonds a bit.\
Veterans Visit President.... ANOTHER ACCIDENT ON ELEVENTH AVENUE\
TRACKS. Milkman seriously injured. Hello, that\'92d make a neat little\
damage suit.\
\
     Augustus McNiel, 253 W. 4th Street, who drives a milkwagon\
     for the Excelsior Dairy Co. was severely injured early this\
     morning when a freight train backing down the New York\
     Central tracks ...\
\
He ought to sue the railroad. By gum I ought to get hold of that man\
and make him sue the railroad.... Not yet recovered consciousness....\
Maybe he\'92s dead. Then his wife can sue them all the more.... I\'92ll go\
to the hospital this very afternoon.... Get in ahead of any of these\
shysters. He took a determined bite of bread and chewed it vigorously.\
Of course not; I\'92ll go to the house and see if there isn\'92t a wife or\
mother or something: Forgive me Mrs. McNiel if I intrude upon your deep\
affliction, but I am engaged in an investigation at this moment....\
Yes, retained by prominent interests.... He drank up the last of the\
coffee and paid the bill.\
\
Repeating 253 W. 4th Street over and over he boarded an uptown car on\
Broadway. Walking west along 4th he skirted Washington Square. The\
trees spread branches of brittle purple into a dovecolored sky; the\
largewindowed houses opposite glowed very pink, nonchalant, prosperous.\
The very place for a lawyer with a large conservative practice to make\
his residence. We\'92ll just see about that. He crossed Sixth Avenue and\
followed the street into the dingy West Side, where there was a smell\
of stables and the sidewalks were littered with scraps of garbage\
and crawling children. Imagine living down here among low Irish and\
foreigners, the scum of the universe. At 253 there were several\
unmarked bells. A woman with gingham sleeves rolled up on sausageshaped\
arms stuck a gray mophead out the window.\
\
\'93Can you tell me if Augustus McNiel lives here?\'94\
\
\'93Him that\'92s up there alayin in horspital. Sure he does.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it. And has he any relatives living here?\'94\
\
\'93An what would you be wantin wid \'92em?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a little matter of business.\'94\
\
\'93Go up to the top floor an you\'92ll foind his wife there but most likely\
she cant see yez.... The poor thing\'92s powerful wrought up about her\
husband, an them only eighteen months married.\'94\
\
The stairs were tracked with muddy footprints and sprinkled here and\
there with the spilling of ashcans. At the top he found a freshpainted\
darkgreen door and knocked.\
\
\'93Who\'92s there?\'94 came a girl\'92s voice that sent a little shiver through\
him. Must be young.\
\
\'93Is Mrs. McNiel in?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 came the lilting girl\'92s voice again. \'93What is it?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a matter of business about Mr. McNiel\'92s accident.\'94\
\
\'93About the accident is it?\'94 The door opened in little cautious jerks.\
She had a sharpcut pearlywhite nose and chin and a pile of wavy\
redbrown hair that lay in little flat curls round her high narrow\
forehead. Gray eyes sharp and suspicious looked him hard in the face.\
\
\'93May I speak to you a minute about Mr. McNiel\'92s accident? There are\
certain legal points involved that I feel it my duty to make known to\
you.... By the way I hope he\'92s better.\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes he\'92s come to.\'94\
\
\'93May I come in? It\'92s a little long to explain.\'94\
\
\'93I guess you can.\'94 Her pouting lips flattened into a wry smile. \'93I\
guess you wont eat me.\'94\
\
\'93No honestly I wont.\'94 He laughed nervously in his throat.\
\
She led the way into the darkened sitting room. \'93I\'92m not pulling up the\
shades so\'92s you wont see the pickle everythin\'92s in.\'94\
\
\'93Allow me to introduce myself, Mrs. McNiel.... George Baldwin, 88\
Maiden Lane.... You see I make a specialty of cases like this.... To\
put the whole matter in a nutshell.... Your husband was run down and\
nearly killed through the culpable or possibly criminal negligence\
of the employees of the New York Central Railroad. There is full and\
ample cause for a suit against the railroad. Now I have reason to\
believe that the Excelsior Dairy Company will bring suit for the losses\
incurred, horse and wagon etcetera....\'94\
\
\'93You mean you think Gus is more likely to get damages himself?\'94\
\
\'93Exactly.\'94\
\
\'93How much do you think he could get?\'94\
\
\'93Why that depends on how badly hurt he is, on the attitude of the\
court, and perhaps on the skill of the lawyer.... I think ten thousand\
dollars is a conservative figure.\'94\
\
\'93And you dont ask no money down?\'94\
\
\'93The lawyer\'92s fee is rarely paid until the case is brought to a\
successful termination.\'94\
\
\'93An you\'92re a lawyer, honest? You look kinder young to be a lawyer.\'94\
\
The gray eyes flashed in his. They both laughed. He felt a warm\
inexplicable flush go through him.\
\
\'93I\'92m a lawyer all the same. I make a specialty of cases like these.\
Why only last Tuesday I got six thousand dollars for a client who was\
kicked by a relay horse riding on the loop.... Just at this moment as\
you may know there is considerable agitation for revoking altogether\
the franchise of the Eleventh Avenue tracks.... I think this is a most\
favorable moment.\'94\
\
\'93Say do you always talk like that, or is it just business?\'94\
\
He threw back his head and laughed.\
\
\'93Poor old Gus, I always said he had a streak of luck in him.\'94\
\
The wail of a child crept thinly through the partition into the room.\
\
\'93What\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s only the baby.... The little wretch dont do nothin but squall.\'94\
\
\'93So you\'92ve got children Mrs. McNiel?\'94 The thought chilled him somehow.\
\
\'93Juss one ... what kin ye expect?\'94\
\
\'93Is it the Emergency Hospital?\'94\
\
\'93Yes I reckon they\'92ll let you see him as it\'92s a matter of business.\
He\'92s groanin somethin dreadful.\'94\
\
\'93Now if I could get a few good witnesses.\'94\
\
\'93Mike Doheny seen it all.... He\'92s on the force. He\'92s a good frien of\
Gus\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93By gad we\'92ve got a case and a half.... Why they\'92ll settle out of\
court.... I\'92ll go right up to the hospital.\'94\
\
A fresh volley of wails came from the other room.\
\
\'93Oh, that brat,\'94 she whispered, screwing up her face. \'93We could use the\
money all right Mr. Baldwin....\'94\
\
\'93Well I must go.\'94 He picked up his hat. \'93And I certainly will do my\
best in this case. May I come by and report progress to you from time\
to time?\'94\
\
\'93I hope you will.\'94\
\
When they shook hands at the door he couldn\'92t seem to let go her hand.\
She blushed.\
\
\'93Well goodby and thank you very much for callin,\'94 she said stiffly.\
\
Baldwin staggered dizzily down the stairs. His head was full of blood.\
The most beautiful girl I\'92ve ever seen in my life. Outside it had begun\
to snow. The snowflakes were cold furtive caresses to his hot cheeks.\
\
The sky over the Park was mottled with little tiptailed clouds like a\
field of white chickens.\
\
\'93Look Alice, lets us go down this little path.\'94\
\
\'93But Ellen, my dad told me to come straight home from school.\'94\
\
\'93Scarecat!\'94\
\
\'93But Ellen those dreadful kidnappers....\'94\
\
\'93I told you not to call me Ellen any more.\'94\
\
\'93Well Elaine then, Elaine the lily maid of Astalot.\'94\
\
Ellen had on her new Black Watch plaid dress. Alice wore glasses and\
had legs thin as hairpins.\
\
\'93Scarecat!\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re dreadful men sitting on that bench. Come along Elaine the\
fair, let\'92s go home.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not scared of them. I could fly like Peter Pan if I wanted to.\'94\
\
\'93Why dont you do it?\'94\
\
\'93I dont want to just now.\'94\
\
Alice began to whimper. \'93Oh Ellen I think you\'92re mean.... Come along\
home Elaine.\'94\
\
\'93No I\'92m going for a walk in the Park.\'94\
\
Ellen started down the steps. Alice stood a minute on the top step\
balancing first on one foot then on the other.\
\
\'93Scaredy scaredy scarecat!\'94 yelled Ellen.\
\
Alice ran off blubbering. \'93I\'92m goin to tell your mommer.\'94\
\
Ellen walked down the asphalt path among the shrubbery kicking her toes\
in the air.\
\
Ellen in her new dress of Black Watch plaid mummy\'92d bought at Hearn\'92s\
walked down the asphalt path kicking her toes in the air. There was\
a silver thistle brooch on the shoulder of the new dress of Black\
Watch plaid mummy\'92d bought at Hearn\'92s. Elaine of Lammermoor was going\
to be married. The Betrothed. Wangnaan nainainai, went the bagpipes\
going through the rye. The man on the bench has a patch over his eye.\
A watching black patch. A black watching patch. The kidnapper of the\
Black Watch, among the rustling shrubs kidnappers keep their Black\
Watch. Ellen\'92s toes dont kick in the air. Ellen is terribly scared of\
the kidnapper of the Black Watch, big smelly man of the Black Watch\
with a patch over his eye. She\'92s scared to run. Her heavy feet scrape\
on the asphalt as she tries to run fast down the path. She\'92s scared to\
turn her head. The kidnapper of the Black Watch is right behind. When I\
get to the lamppost I\'92ll run as far as the nurse and the baby, when I\
get to the nurse and the baby I\'92ll run as far as the big tree, when I\
get to the big tree.... Oh I\'92m so tired.... I\'92ll run out onto Central\
Park West and down the street home. She was scared to turn round. She\
ran with a stitch in her side. She ran till her mouth tasted like\
pennies.\
\
\'93What are you running for Ellie?\'94 asked Gloria Drayton who was skipping\
rope outside the Norelands.\
\
\'93Because I wanted to,\'94 panted Ellen.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Winey afterglow stained the muslin curtains and filtered into the blue\
gloom of the room. They stood on either side of the table. Out of a pot\
of narcissus still wrapped in tissue paper starshaped flowers gleamed\
with dim phosphorescence, giving off a damp earthsmell enmeshed in\
indolent prickly perfume.\
\
\'93It was nice of you to bring me these Mr. Baldwin. I\'92ll take them up to\
Gus at the hospital tomorrow.\'94\
\
\'93For God\'92s sake dont call me that.\'94\
\
\'93But I dont like the name of George.\'94\
\
\'93I dont care, I like your name, Nellie.\'94\
\
He stood looking at her; perfumed weights coiled about his arms. His\
hands dangled like empty gloves. Her eyes were black, dilating, her\
lips pouting towards him across the flowers. She jerked her hands up to\
cover her face. His arm was round her little thin shoulders.\
\
\'93But honest Georgy, we\'92ve got to be careful. You mustn\'92t come here so\
often. I dont want all the old hens in the house to start talkin.\'94\
\
\'93Dont worry about that.... We mustn\'92t worry about anything.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been actin\'92 like I was crazy this last week.... I\'92ve got to quit.\'94\
\
\'93You dont think I\'92ve been acting naturally, do you? I swear to God\
Nellie I\'92ve never done anything like this before. I\'92m not that kind of\
a person.\'94\
\
She showed her even teeth in a laugh. \'93Oh you kin never tell about men.\'94\
\
\'93But if it weren\'92t something extraordinary and exceptional you dont\
think I\'92d be running after you this way do you? I\'92ve never been in love\
with anybody but you Nellie.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a good one.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s true.... I\'92ve never gone in for that sort of thing. I\'92ve\
worked too hard getting through lawschool and all that to have time for\
girls.\'94\
\
\'93Makin up for lost time I should say.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Nellie dont talk like that.\'94\
\
\'93But honestly Georgy I\'92ve got to cut this stuff out. What\'92ll we do when\
Gus comes out of the hospital? An I\'92m neglectin the kid an everythin.\'94\
\
\'93Christ I dont care what happens.... Oh Nellie.\'94 He pulled her face\
round. They clung to each other swaying, mouths furiously mingling.\
\
\'93Look out we almost had the lamp over.\'94\
\
\'93God you\'92re wonderful, Nellie.\'94 Her head had dropped on his chest, he\
could feel the pungence of her tumbled hair all through him. It was\
dark. Snakes of light from the streetlamp wound greenly about them. Her\
eyes looked up into his frighteningly solemnly black.\
\
\'93Look Nellie lets go in the other room,\'94 he whispered in a tiny\
trembling voice.\
\
\'93Baby\'92s in there.\'94\
\
They stood apart with cold hands looking at each other. \'93Come here an\
help me. I\'92ll move the cradle in here.... Careful not to wake her or\
she\'92ll bawl her head off.\'94 Her voice crackled huskily.\
\
The baby was asleep, her little rubbery face tight closed, minute pink\
fists clenched on the coverlet.\
\
\'93She looks happy,\'94 he said with a forced titter.\
\
\'93Keep quiet cant you.... Here take yer shoes off.... There\'92s been\
enough trampin o men\'92s shoes up here.... Georgy I wouldn\'92t do this, but\
I juss cant help....\'94\
\
He fumbled for her in the dark. \'93You darling....\'94 Clumsy he brooded\
over her, breathing crazily deep.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Flatfoot you\'92re stringin us....\'94\
\
\'93I aint, honest I\'92d swear by me muder\'92s grave it\'92s de trutt....\
Latitude toityseven soutt by twelve west.... You go dere an see....\
On dat island we made in de second officer\'92s boat when de _Elliot P.\
Simkins_ foundered der was four males and fortyseven females includin\
women an children. Waren\'92t it me dat tole de reporter guy all about it\
an it came out in all de Sunday papers?\'94\
\
\'93But Flatfoot how the hell did they ever get you away from there?\'94\
\
\'93Dey carried me off on a stretcher or I\'92m a cockeyed lyer. I\'92ll be a\
sonofabitch if I warnt founderin, goin down by de bows like de ole\
_Elliot P_.\'94\
\
Heads tossed back on thick necks let out volleys of laughter, glasses\
were banged on the round ringmarked table, thighs resounded with slaps,\
elbows were poked into ribs.\
\
\'93An how many guys was in de boat?\'94\
\
\'93Six includin Mr. Dorkins de second officer.\'94\
\
\'93Seven and four makes eleven.... Jez.... Four an three-elevenths broads\
per capita.... Some island.\'94\
\
\'93When does the next ferry leave?\'94\
\
\'93Better have another drink on that.... Hay Charlie fill \'92em up.\'94\
\
Emile pulled at Congo\'92s elbow. \'93Come outside a sec. J\'92ai que\'92quechose a\
te dire.\'94 Congo\'92s eyes were wet, he staggered a little as he followed\
Emile into the outer bar. \'93O le p\'92tit mysterieux.\'94\
\
\'93Look here, I\'92ve got to go call on a lady friend.\'94\
\
\'93Oh that\'92s what\'92s eating you is it? I always said you was a wise guy\
Emile.\'94\
\
\'93Look, here\'92s my address on a piece of paper in case you forget it: 945\
West 22nd. You can come and sleep there if you\'92re not too pickled, and\
dont you bring any friends or women or anything. I\'92m in right with the\
landlady and I dont want to spoil it.... Tu comprends.\'94\
\
\'93But I wanted you to come on a swell party.... Faut faire un peu la\
noce, nom de dieu!...\'94\
\
\'93I got to work in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93But I got eight months\'92 pay in my pocket....\
\
\'93Anyway come round tomorrow at about six. I\'92ll wait for you.\'94\
\
\'93Tu m\'92emmerdes tu sais avec tes mani\'e8res;\'94 Congo aimed a jet of saliva\
at the spittoon in the corner of the bar and turned back frowning into\
the inside room.\
\
\'93Hay dere sit down Congo; Barney\'92s goin to sing de Bastard King of\
England.\'94\
\
Emile jumped on a streetcar and rode uptown. At Eighteenth Street he\
got off and walked west to Eighth Avenue. Two doors from the corner\
was a small store. Over one window was CONFISERIE, over the other\
DELICATESSEN. In the middle of the glass door white enamel letters\
read Emile Rigaud, High Class Table Dainties. Emile went in. The bell\
jangled on the door. A dark stout woman with black hairs over the\
corners of her mouth was drowsing behind the counter. Emile took off\
his hat. \'93Bonsoir Madame Rigaud.\'94 She looked up with a start, then\
showed two dimples in a profound smile.\
\
\'93Tieng c\'92est comma \'e7a qu\'92ong oublie ses ami-es,\'94 she said in a booming\
Bordelais voice. \'93Here\'92s a week that I say to myself, Monsieur Loustec\
is forgetting his friends.\'94\
\
\'93I never have any time any more.\'94\
\
\'93Lots of work, lots of money, heing?\'94 When she laughed her shoulders\
shook and the big breasts under the tight blue bodice.\
\
Emile screwed up one eye. \'93Might be worse.... But I\'92m sick of\
waiting.... It\'92s so tiring; nobody regards a waiter.\'94\
\
\'93You are a man of ambition, Monsieur Loustec.\'94\
\
\'93Que voulez vous?\'94 He blushed, and said timidly \'93My name\'92s Emile.\'94\
\
Mme. Rigaud rolled her eyes towards the ceiling. \'93That was my dead\
husband\'92s name. I\'92m used to that name.\'94 She sighed heavily.\
\
\'93And how\'92s business?\'94\
\
\'93Comma ci comma \'e7a.... Ham\'92s gone up again.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s the Chicago ring\'92s doing that.... A corner in pork, that\'92s the\
way to make money.\'94\
\
Emile found Mme. Rigaud\'92s bulgy black eyes probing his. \'93I enjoyed your\
singing so last time.... I\'92ve thought of it often.... Music does one\
good dont it?\'94 Mme. Rigaud\'92s dimples stretched and stretched as she\
smiled. \'93My poor husband had no ear.... That gave me a great deal of\
pain.\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t you sing me something this evening?\'94\
\
\'93If you want me to, Emile?... But there is nobody to wait on customers.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll run in when we hear the bell, if you will permit me.\'94\
\
\'93Very well.... I\'92ve learned a new American song ... C\'92est chic vous\
savez.\'94\
\
Mme. Rigaud locked the till with a key from the bunch that hung at her\
belt and went through the glass door in the back of the shop. Emile\
followed with his hat in his hand.\
\
\'93Give me your hat Emile.\'94\
\
\'93Oh dont trouble yourself.\'94\
\
The room beyond was a little parlor with yellow flowered wallpaper,\
old salmon pink porti\'e8res and, under the gas-bracket from which hung\
a bunch of crystals, a piano with photographs on it. The pianostool\
creaked when Mme. Rigaud sat down. She ran her fingers over the keys.\
Emile sat carefully on the very edge of the chair beside the piano\
with his hat on his knees and pushed his face forward so that as she\
played she could see it out of the corner of her eye tilted up towards\
hers. Madame Rigaud began to sing:\
\
    Just a birrd in a geelded cage\
    A beauteeful sight to see\
    You\'92d tink se vas \'92appee\
    And free from all care\
    Se\'92s not zo se seems to be....\
\
The bell on the door of the shop jangled loud.\
\
\'93Permettez,\'94 cried Emile running out.\
\
\'93Half a pound o bolony sausage sliced,\'94 said a little girl with\
pigtails. Emile passed the knife across the palm of his hand and sliced\
the sausage carefully. He tiptoed back into the parlor and put the\
money on the edge of the piano. Madame Rigaud was still singing:\
\
    Tis sad ven you tink of a vasted life\
    For yout cannot mate vit age\
    Beautee vas soooold\
    For an old man\'92s gooold\
    Se\'92s a birrd in a geelded cage.\
\
Bud stood on the corner of West Broadway and Franklin Street eating\
peanuts out of a bag. It was noon and his money was all gone. The\
Elevated thundered overhead. Dustmotes danced before his eyes in the\
girderstriped sunlight. Wondering which way to go he spelled out the\
names of the streets for the third time. A black shiny cab drawn by two\
black shinyrumped horses turned the corner sharp in front of him with a\
rasp on the cobblestones of red shiny wheels suddenly braked. There was\
a yellow leather trunk on the seat beside the driver. In the cab a man\
in a brown derby talked loud to a woman with a gray feather boa round\
her neck and gray ostrich plumes in her hat. The man jerked a revolver\
up to his mouth. The horses reared and plunged in the middle of a\
shoving crowd. Policemen elbowing through. They had the man out on the\
curbstone vomiting blood, head hanging limp over his checked vest. The\
woman stood tall and white beside him twisting her feather boa in her\
hands, the gray plumes in her hat nodding in the striped sunlight under\
the elevated.\
\
\'93His wife was taking him to Europe.... The _Deutschland_ sailing\
at twelve. I\'92d said goodby to him forever. He was sailing on the\
_Deutschland_ at twelve. He\'92d said goodby to me forever.\'94\
\
\'93Git oute de way dere;\'94 a cop jabbed Bud in the stomach with his elbow.\
His knees trembled. He got to the edge of the crowd and walked away\
trembling. Mechanically he shelled a peanut and put it in his mouth.\
Better save the rest till evenin. He twisted the mouth of the bag and\
dropped it into his pocket.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Under the arclight that spluttered pink and green-edged violet the man\
in the checked suit passed two girls. The full-lipped oval face of the\
girl nearest to him; her eyes were like a knifethrust. He walked a few\
paces then turned and followed them fingering his new satin necktie. He\
made sure the horseshoe diamond pin was firm in its place. He passed\
them again. Her face was turned away. Maybe she was.... No he couldn\'92t\
tell. Good luck he had fifty dollars on him. He sat on a bench and\
let them pass him. Wouldnt do to make a mistake and get arrested.\
They didnt notice him. He followed them down the path and out of the\
Park. His heart was pounding. I\'92d give a million dollars for ... Pray\
pardon me, isn\'92t this Miss Anderson? The girls walked fast. In the\
crowd crossing Columbus Circle he lost sight of them. He hurried down\
Broadway block after block. The full lips, the eyes like the thrust of\
a knife. He stared in girls\'92 faces right and left. Where could she have\
gone? He hurried on down Broadway.\
\
Ellen was sitting beside her father on a bench at the Battery. She was\
looking at her new brown button shoes. A glint of sunlight caught on\
the toes and on each of the little round buttons when she swung her\
feet out from under the shadow of her dress.\
\
\'93Think how it\'92d be,\'94 Ed Thatcher was saying, \'93to go abroad on one of\
those liners. Imagine crossing the great Atlantic in seven days.\'94\
\
\'93But daddy what do people do all that time on a boat?\'94\
\
\'93I dunno ... I suppose they walk round the deck and play cards and read\
and all that sort of thing. Then they have dances.\'94\
\
\'93Dances on a boat! I should think it\'92d be awful tippy.\'94 Ellen giggled.\
\
\'93On the big modern liners they do.\'94\
\
\'93Daddy why dont we go?\'94\
\
\'93Maybe we will some day if I can save up the money.\'94\
\
\'93Oh daddy do hurry up an save a lot of money. Alice Vaughan\'92s mother an\
father go to the White Mountains every summer, but next summer they\'92re\
going abroad.\'94\
\
Ed Thatcher looked out across the bay that stretched in blue sparkling\
reaches into the brown haze towards the Narrows. The statue of Liberty\
stood up vague as a sleepwalker among the curling smoke of tugboats and\
the masts of schooners and the blunt lumbering masses of brickbarges\
and sandscows. Here and there the glary sun shone out white on a sail\
or on the superstructure of a steamer. Red ferryboats shuttled back and\
forth.\
\
\'93Daddy why arent we rich?\'94\
\
\'93There are lots of people poorer than us Ellie.... You wouldn\'92t like\
your daddy any better if he were rich would you?\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes I would daddy.\'94\
\
Thatcher laughed. \'93Well it might happen someday.... How would you like\
the firm of Edward C. Thatcher and Co., Certified Accountants?\'94\
\
Ellen jumped to her feet: \'93Oh look at that big boat.... That\'92s the boat\
I want to go on.\'94\
\
\'93That there\'92s the _Harabic_,\'94 croaked a cockney voice beside them.\
\
\'93Oh is it really?\'94 said Thatcher.\
\
\'93Indeed it is, sir; as fahne a ship as syles the sea sir,\'94 explained\
eagerly a frayed creakyvoiced man who sat on the bench beside them. A\
cap with a broken patentleather visor was pulled down over a little\
peaked face that exuded a faded smell of whiskey. \'93Yes sir, the\
_Harabic_ sir.\'94\
\
\'93Looks like a good big boat that does.\'94\
\
\'93One of the biggest afloat sir. I syled on er many\'92s the tahme and on\
the _Majestic_ and the _Teutonic_ too sir, fahne ships both, though a\
bit light\'92eaded in a sea as you might say. I\'92ve signed as steward on\
the Hinman and White Star lahnes these thirty years and now in me old\
age they\'92ve lyed me hoff.\'94\
\
\'93Oh well, we all have hard luck sometimes.\'94\
\
\'93And some of us as it hall the tahme sir.... I\'92d be a appy man sir, if\
I could get back to the old country. This arent any plyce for an old\
man, it\'92s for the young and strong, this is.\'94 He drew a gout-twisted\
hand across the bay and pointed to the statue. \'93Look at er, she\'92s\
alookin towards Hengland she is.\'94\
\
\'93Daddy let\'92s go away. I dont like this man,\'94 whispered Ellen\
tremulously in her father\'92s ear.\
\
\'93All right we\'92ll go and take a look at the sealions.... Good day.\'94\
\
\'93You couldn\'92t fahnd me the price of a cup o coffee, could you now sir?\
I\'92m fair foundered.\'94 Thatcher put a dime in the grimy knobbed hand.\
\
\'93But daddy, mummy said never to let people speak to you in the street\
an to call a policeman if they did an to run away as fast as you could\
on account of those horrible kidnappers.\'94\
\
\'93No danger of their kidnapping me Ellie. That\'92s just for little girls.\'94\
\
\'93When I grow up will I be able to talk to people on the street like\
that?\'94\
\
\'93No deary you certainly will not.\'94\
\
\'93If I\'92d been a boy could I?\'94\
\
\'93I guess you could.\'94\
\
In front of the Aquarium they stopped a minute to look down the bay.\
The liner with a tug puffing white smoke against either bow was abreast\
of them towering above the ferryboats and harborcraft. Gulls wheeled\
and screamed. The sun shone creamily on the upper decks and on the big\
yellow blackcapped funnel. From the foremast a string of little flags\
fluttered jauntily against the slate sky.\
\
\'93And there are lots of people coming over from abroad on that boat\
arent there daddy?\'94\
\
\'93Look you can see ... the decks are black with people.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Walking across Fiftythird Street from the East River Bud Korpenning\
found himself standing beside a pile of coal on the sidewalk. On the\
other side of the pile of coal a grayhaired woman in a flounced lace\
shirtwaist with a big pink cameo poised on the curve of her high bosom\
was looking at his stubbly chin and at the wrists that hung raw below\
the frayed sleeves of his coat. Then he heard himself speak:\
\
\'93Dont spose I could take that load of coal in back for you ma\'92am?\'94 Bud\
shifted his weight from one foot to the other.\
\
\'93That\'92s just what you could do,\'94 the woman said in a cracked voice.\
\'93That wretched coal man left it this morning and said he\'92d be back to\
bring it in. I suppose he\'92s drunk like the rest of them. I wonder if I\
can trust you in the house.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m from upstate ma\'92am,\'94 stammered Bud.\
\
\'93From where?\'94\
\
\'93From Cooperstown.\'94\
\
\'93Hum.... I\'92m from Buffalo. This is certainly the city for everyone\
being from somewhere else.... Well you\'92re probably a burglar\'92s\
accomplice, but I cant help it I\'92ve got to have that coal in.... Come\
in my man, I\'92ll give you a shovel and a basket and if you dont drop any\
in the passage or on the kitchen floor, because the scrubwoman\'92s just\
left ... naturally the coal had to come when the floor was clean....\
I\'92ll give you a dollar.\'94\
\
When he carried in the first load she was hovering in the kitchen.\
His caving hungersniff stomach made him totter lightheadedly, but he\
was happy to be working instead of dragging his feet endlessly along\
pavements, across streets, dodging drays and carts and streetcars.\
\
\'93How is it you haven\'92t got a regular job my man,\'94 she asked as he came\
back breathless with the empty basket.\
\
\'93I reckon it\'92s as I aint caught on to city ways yet. I was born an\
raised on a farm.\'94\
\
\'93And what did you want to come to this horrible city for?\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t stay on the farm no more.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s terrible what\'92s going to become of this country if all the fine\
strong young men leave the farms and come into the cities.\'94\
\
\'93Thought I could git a work as a longshoreman, ma\'92am, but they\'92re\
layin\'92 men off down on the wharves. Mebbe I kin go to sea as a sailor\
but nobody wants a green hand.... I aint et for two days now.\'94\
\
\'93How terrible.... Why you poor man couldn\'92t you have gone to some\
mission or something?\'94\
\
When Bud had brought the last load in he found a plate of cold stew on\
the corner of the kitchen table, half a loaf of stale bread and a glass\
of milk that was a little sour. He ate quickly barely chewing and put\
the last of the stale bread in his pocket.\
\
\'93Well did you enjoy your little lunch?\'94\
\
\'93Thankye ma\'92am.\'94 He nodded with his mouth full.\
\
\'93Well you can go now and thank you very much.\'94 She put a quarter into\
his hand. Bud blinked at the quarter in the palm of his hand.\
\
\'93But ma\'92am you said you\'92d give me a dollar.\'94\
\
\'93I never said any such thing. The idea.... I\'92ll call my husband if you\
dont get out of here immediately. In fact I\'92ve a great mind to notify\
the police as it is....\'94\
\
Without a word Bud pocketed the quarter and shuffled out.\
\
\'93Such ingratitude,\'94 he heard the woman snort as he closed the door\
behind him.\
\
A cramp was tying knots in his stomach. He turned east again and walked\
the long blocks to the river with his fists pressed tight in under his\
ribs. At any moment he expected to throw up. If I lose it it wont do\
me no good. When he got to the end of the street he lay down on the\
gray rubbish slide beside the wharf. A smell of hops seeped gruelly and\
sweet out of the humming brewery behind him. The light of the sunset\
flamed in the windows of factories on the Long Island side, flashed in\
the portholes of tugs, lay in swaths of curling yellow and orange over\
the swift browngreen water, glowed on the curved sails of a schooner\
that was slowly bucking the tide up into Hell Gate. Inside him the pain\
was less. Something flamed and glowed like the sunset seeping through\
his body. He sat up. Thank Gawd I aint agoin to lose it.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
On deck it\'92s damp and shivery in the dawn. The ship\'92s rail is wet when\
you put your hand on it. The brown harborwater smells of washbasins,\
rustles gently against the steamer\'92s sides. Sailors are taking the\
hatches off the hold. There\'92s a rattle of chains and a clatter from the\
donkeyengine where a tall man in blue overalls stands at a lever in the\
middle of a cloud of steam that wraps round your face like a wet towel.\
\
\'93Muddy is it really the Fourth of July?\'94\
\
Mother\'92s hand has grasped his firmly trailing him down the companionway\
into the dining saloon. Stewards are piling up baggage at the foot of\
the stairs.\
\
\'93Muddy is it really the Fourth of July?\'94\
\
\'93Yes deary I\'92m afraid it is.... A holiday is a dreadful time to arrive.\
Still I guess they\'92ll all be down to meet us.\'94\
\
She has her blue serge on and a long trailing brown veil and the\
little brown animal with red eyes and teeth that are real teeth round\
her neck. A smell of mothballs comes from it, of unpacking trunks, of\
wardrobes littered with tissuepaper. It\'92s hot in the dining saloon,\
the engines sob soothingly behind the bulkhead. His head nods over\
his cup of hot milk just colored with coffee. Three bells. His head\
snaps up with a start. The dishes tinkle and the coffee spills with\
the trembling of the ship. Then a thud and rattle of anchorchains and\
gradually quiet. Muddy gets up to look through the porthole.\
\
\'93Why it\'92s going to be a fine day after all. I think the sun will burn\
through the mist.... Think of it dear; home at last. This is where you\
were born deary.\'94\
\
\'93And it\'92s the Fourth of July.\'94\
\
\'93Worst luck.... Now Jimmy you must promise me to stay on the promenade\
deck and be very careful. Mother has to finish packing. Promise me you\
wont get into any mischief.\'94\
\
\'93I promise.\'94\
\
He catches his toe on the brass threshold of the smokingroom door and\
sprawls on deck, gets up rubbing his bare knee just in time to see the\
sun break through chocolate clouds and swash a red stream of brightness\
over the putty-colored water. Billy with the freckles on his ears whose\
people are for Roosevelt instead of for Parker like mother is waving a\
silk flag the size of a handkerchief at the men on a yellow and white\
tugboat.\
\
\'93Didjer see the sun rise?\'94 he asks as if he owned it.\
\
\'93You bet I saw it from my porthole,\'94 says Jimmy walking away after a\
lingering look at the silk flag. There\'92s land close on the other side;\
nearest a green bank with trees and wide white grayroofed houses.\
\
\'93Well young feller, how does it feel to be home?\'94 asks the tweedy\
gentleman with droopy mustaches.\
\
\'93Is that way New York?\'94 Jimmy points out over the still water\
broadening in the sunlight.\
\
\'93Yessiree-bobby, behind yonder bank of fog lies Manhattan.\'94\
\
\'93Please sir what\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s New York.... You see New York is on Manhattan Island.\'94\
\
\'93Is it really on an island?\'94\
\
\'93Well what do you think of a boy who dont know that his own home town\
is on an island?\'94\
\
The tweedy gentleman\'92s gold teeth glitter as he laughs with his mouth\
wide open. Jimmy walks on round the deck, kicking his heels, all foamy\
inside; New York\'92s on an island.\
\
\'93You look right glad to get home little boy,\'94 says the Southern lady.\
\
\'93Oh I am, I could fall down and kiss the ground.\'94\
\
\'93Well that\'92s a fine patriotic sentiment.... I\'92m glad to hear you say\
it.\'94\
\
Jimmy scalds all over. Kiss the ground, kiss the ground, echoes in his\
head like a catcall. Round the deck.\
\
\'93That with the yellow flag\'92s the quarantine boat.\'94 A stout man with\
rings on his fingers--he\'92s a Jew--is talking to the tweedy man. \'93Ha\
we\'92re under way again.... That was quick, what?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll be in for breakfast, an American breakfast, a good old home\
breakfast.\'94\
\
Muddy coming down the deck, her brown veil floating. \'93Here\'92s your\
overcoat Jimmy, you\'92ve got to carry it.\'94\
\
\'93Muddy, can I get out that flag?\'94\
\
\'93What flag?\'94\
\
\'93The silk American flag.\'94\
\
\'93No dear it\'92s all put away.\'94\
\
\'93Please I\'92d so like to have that flag cause it\'92s the Fourth of July an\
everything.\'94\
\
\'93Now dont whine Jimmy. When mother says no she means no.\'94\
\
Sting of tears; he swallows a lump and looks up in her eyes.\
\
\'93Jimmy it\'92s put away in the shawlstrap and mother\'92s so tired of fussing\
with those wretched bags.\'94\
\
\'93But Billy Jones has one.\'94\
\
\'93Look deary you\'92re missing things.... There\'92s the statue of Liberty.\'94\
A tall green woman in a dressing gown standing on an island holding up\
her hand.\
\
\'93What\'92s that in her hand?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a light, dear ... Liberty enlightening the world.... And\
there\'92s Governors Island the other side. There where the trees are ...\
and see, that\'92s Brooklyn Bridge.... That is a fine sight. And look\
at all the docks ... that\'92s the Battery ... and the masts and the\
ships ... and there\'92s the spire of Trinity Church and the Pulitzer\
building.\'94 ... Mooing of steamboat whistles, ferries red and waddly like\
ducks churning up white water, a whole train of cars on a barge pushed\
by a tug chugging beside it that lets out cotton steampuffs all the\
same size. Jimmy\'92s hands are cold and he\'92s chugging and chugging inside.\
\
\'93Dear you mustn\'92t get too excited. Come on down and see if mother left\
anything in the stateroom.\'94\
\
Streak of water crusted with splinters, groceryboxes, orangepeel,\
cabbageleaves, narrowing, narrowing between the boat and the dock. A\
brass band shining in the sun, white caps, sweaty red faces, playing\
Yankee Doodle. \'93That\'92s for the ambassador, you know the tall man who\
never left his cabin.\'94 Down the slanting gangplank, careful not to\
trip. _Yankee Doodle went to town._... Shiny black face, white enameled\
eyes, white enameled teeth. \'93Yas ma\'92am, yas ma\'92am\'94 ... _Stucka feather\
in his hat, an called it macaroni._.... \'93We have the freedom of the\
port.\'94 Blue custom officer shows a bald head bowing low ... _Tumte\
boomboom_ BOOM BOOM BOOM ... _cakes and sugar candy_....\
\
\'93Here\'92s Aunt Emily and everybody.... Dear how sweet of you to come.\'94\
\
\'93My dear I\'92ve been here since six o\'92clock!\'94\
\
\'93My how he\'92s grown.\'94\
\
Light dresses, sparkle of brooches, faces poked into Jimmy\'92s, smell of\
roses and uncle\'92s cigar.\
\
\'93Why he\'92s quite a little man. Come here sir, let me look at you.\'94\
\
\'93Well goodby Mrs. Herf. If you ever come down our way.... Jimmy I\
didn\'92t see you kiss the ground young man.\'94\
\
\'93Oh he\'92s killing, he\'92s so oldfashioned ... such an oldfashioned child.\'94\
\
The cab smells musty, goes rumbling and lurching up a wide avenue\
swirling with dust, through brick streets soursmelling full of grimy\
yelling children, and all the while the trunks creak and thump on top.\
\
\'93Muddy dear, you dont think it\'92ll break through do you?\'94\
\
\'93No dear,\'94 she laughs tilting her head to one side. She has pink cheeks\
and her eyes sparkle under the brown veil.\
\
\'93Oh muddy.\'94 He stands up and kisses her on the chin. \'93What lots of\
people muddy.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s on account of the Fourth of July.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s that man doing?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s been drinking dear I\'92m afraid.\'94\
\
From a little stand draped with flags a man with white whiskers with\
little red garters on his shirtsleeves is making a speech. \'93That\'92s a\
Fourth of July orator.... He\'92s reading the Declaration of Independence.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93Because it\'92s the Fourth of July.\'94\
\
Crang! ... that\'92s a cannon-cracker. \'93That wretched boy might have\
frightened the horse.... The Fourth of July dear is the day the\
Declaration of Independence was signed in 1776 in the War of the\
Revolution. My great grandfather Harland was killed in that war.\'94\
\
A funny little train with a green engine clatters overhead.\
\
\'93That\'92s the Elevated ... and look this is Twentythird Street ... and\
the Flatiron Building.\'94\
\
The cab turns sharp into a square glowering with sunlight, smelling of\
asphalt and crowds and draws up before a tall door where colored men in\
brass buttons run forward.\
\
\'93And here we are at the Fifth Avenue Hotel.\'94\
\
Icecream at Uncle Jeff\'92s, cold sweet peachy taste thick against the\
roof of the mouth. Funny after you\'92ve left the ship you can still\
feel the motion. Blue chunks of dusk melting into the squarecut\
uptown streets. Rockets spurting bright in the blue dusk, colored\
balls falling, Bengal fire, Uncle Jeff tacking pinwheels on the tree\
outside the apartmenthouse door, lighting them with his cigar. Roman\
candles you have to hold. \'93Be sure and turn your face away, kiddo.\'94\
Hot thud and splutter in your hands, eggshaped balls soaring, red,\
yellow, green, smell of powder and singed paper. Down the fizzing\
glowing street a bell clangs, clangs nearer, clangs faster. Hoofs\
of lashed horses striking sparks, a fire engine roars by, round the\
corner red and smoking and brassy. \'93Must be on Broadway.\'94 After it\
the hookandladder and the firechief\'92s highpacing horses. Then the\
tinkletinkle of an ambulance. \'93Somebody got his.\'94\
\
The box is empty, gritty powder and sawdust get under your nails when\
you feel along it, it\'92s empty, no there are still some little wooden\
fire engines on wheels. Really truly fire engines. \'93We must set these\
off Uncle Jeff. Oh these are the best of all Uncle Jeff.\'94 They have\
squibs in them and go sizzling off fast over the smooth asphalt of the\
street, pushed by sparkling plumed fiery tails, leaving smoke behind\
some real fire engines.\
\
Tucked into bed in a tall unfriendly room, with hot eyes and aching\
legs. \'93Growing pains darling,\'94 muddy said when she tucked him in,\
leaning over him in a glimmering silk dress with drooping sleeves.\
\
\'93Muddy what\'92s that little black patch on your face?\'94\
\
\'93That,\'94 she laughed and her necklace made a tiny tinkling, \'93is to make\
mother look prettier.\'94\
\
He lay there hemmed by tall nudging wardrobes and dressers. From\
outside came the sound of wheels and shouting, and once in a while a\
band of music in the distance. His legs ached as if they\'92d fall off,\
and when he closed his eyes he was speeding through flaring blackness\
on a red fire engine that shot fire and sparks and colored balls out of\
its sizzling tail.\
\
The July sun pricked out the holes in the worn shades on the office\
windows. Gus McNiel sat in the morrischair with his crutches between\
his knees. His face was white and puffy from months in hospital. Nellie\
in a straw hat with red poppies rocked herself to and fro in the swivel\
chair at the desk.\
\
\'93Better come an set by me Nellie. That lawyer might not like it if he\
found yez at his desk.\'94\
\
She wrinkled up her nose and got to her feet. \'93Gus I declare you\'92re\
scared to death.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d be scared too if you\'92d had what I\'92d had wid de railroad doctor\
pokin me and alookin at me loike I was a jailbird and the Jew doctor\
the lawyer got tellin me as I was totally in-cap-aciated. Gorry I\'92m all\
in. I think he was lyin though.\'94\
\
\'93Gus you do as I tell ye. Keep yer mouth shut an let the other guys do\
the talkin\'92.\'94\
\
\'93Sure I wont let a peep outa me.\'94\
\
Nellie stood behind his chair and began stroking the crisp hair back\
from his forehead.\
\
\'93It\'92ll be great to be home again, Nellie, wid your cookin an all.\'94 He\
put an arm round her waist and drew her to him.\
\
\'93Juss think, maybe I wont have to do any.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think I\'92d loike that so well.... Gosh if we dont git that\
money I dunno how we\'92ll make out.\'94\
\
\'93Oh pop\'92ll help us like he\'92s been doin.\'94\
\
\'93Hope to the Lord I aint goin to be sick all me loife.\'94\
\
George Baldwin came in slamming the glass door behind him. He stood\
looking at the man and his wife a second with his hands in his pockets.\
Then he said quietly smiling:\
\
\'93Well it\'92s done people. As soon as the waiver of any further claims\
is signed the railroad\'92s attorneys will hand me a check for twelve\
thousand five hundred. That\'92s what we finally compromised on.\'94\
\
\'93Twelve thousand iron men,\'94 gasped Gus. \'93Twelve thousand five hundred.\
Say wait a second.... Hold me crutches while I go out an git run over\
again.... Wait till I tell McGillycuddy about it. The ole divil\'92ll be\
throwin hisself in front of a market train.... Well Mr. Baldwin sir,\'94\
Gus propped himself onto his feet.... \'93you\'92re a great man.... Aint he\
Nellie?\'94\
\
\'93To be sure he is.\'94\
\
Baldwin tried to keep from looking her in the eye. Spurts of jangling\
agitation were going through him, making his legs feel weak and trembly.\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell yez what let\'92s do,\'94 said Gus. \'93Sposin we all take a horsecab\
up to ole McGillycuddy\'92s an have somethin to wet our whistles in the\
private bar.... My treat. I need a bit of a drink to cheer me up. Come\
on Nellie.\'94\
\
\'93I wish I could,\'94 said Baldwin, \'93but I\'92m afraid I cant. I\'92m pretty busy\
these days. But just give me your signature before you go and I\'92ll have\
the check for you tomorrow.... Sign here ... and here.\'94\
\
McNiel had stumped over to the desk and was leaning over the papers.\
Baldwin felt that Nellie was trying to make a sign to him. He kept his\
eyes down. After they had left he noticed her purse, a little leather\
purse with pansies burned on the back, on the corner of the desk. There\
was a tap on the glass door. He opened.\
\
\'93Why wouldn\'92t you look at me?\'94 she said breathlessly low.\
\
\'93How could I with him here.\'94 He held the purse out to her.\
\
She put her arms round his neck and kissed him hard on the mouth. \'93What\
are we goin to do? Shall I come in this afternoon? Gus\'92ll be liquorin\
up to get himself sick again now he\'92s out of the hospital.\'94\
\
\'93No I cant Nellie.... Business ... business.... I\'92m busy every minute.\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes you are.... All right have it your own way.\'94 She slammed the\
door.\
\
Baldwin sat at his desk biting his knuckles without seeing the pile\
of papers he was staring at. \'93I\'92ve got to cut it out,\'94 he said aloud\
and got to his feet. He paced back and forth across the narrow office\
looking at the shelves of lawbooks and the Gibson girl calendar over\
the telephone and the dusty square of sunlight by the window. He looked\
at his watch. Lunchtime. He drew the palm of a hand over his forehead\
and went to the telephone.\
\
\'93Rector 1237.... Mr. Sandbourne there?... Say Phil suppose I come by\
for you for lunch? Do you want to go out right now?... Sure.... Say\
Phil I clinched it, I got the milkman his damages. I\'92m pleased as the\
dickens. I\'92ll set you up to a regular lunch on the strength of it...\
So long....\'94\
\
He came away from the telephone smiling, took his hat off its hook,\
fitted it carefully on his head in front of the little mirror over the\
hatrack, and hurried down the stairs.\
\
On the last flight he met Mr. Emery of Emery & Emery who had their\
offices on the first floor.\
\
\'93Well Mr. Baldwin how\'92s things?\'94 Mr. Emery of Emery & Emery was a\
flatfaced man with gray hair and eyebrows and a protruding wedgeshaped\
jaw. \'93Pretty well sir, pretty well.\'94\
\
\'93They tell me you are doing mighty well.... Something about the New\
York Central Railroad.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Simsbury and I settled it out of court.\'94\
\
\'93Humph,\'94 said Mr. Emery of Emery & Emery.\
\
As they were about to part in the street Mr. Emery said suddenly \'93Would\
you care to dine with me and my wife some time?\'94\
\
\'93Why ... er ... I\'92d be delighted.\'94\
\
\'93I like to see something of the younger fellows in the profession you\
understand.... Well I\'92ll drop you a line.... Some evening next week. It\
would give us a chance to have a chat.\'94\
\
Baldwin shook a blueveined hand in a shinystarched cuff and went off\
down Maiden Lane hustling with a springy step through the noon crowd.\
On Pearl Street he climbed a steep flight of black stairs that smelt of\
roasting coffee and knocked on a groundglass door.\
\
\'93Come in,\'94 shouted a bass voice. A swarthy man lanky in his\
shirtsleeves strode forward to meet him. \'93Hello George, thought you\
were never comin\'92. I\'92m hongry as hell.\'94\
\
\'93Phil I\'92m going to set you up to the best lunch you ever ate in your\
life.\'94\
\
\'93Well I\'92m juss waitin\'92 to be set.\'94\
\
Phil Sandbourne put on his coat, knocked the ashes out of his pipe on\
the corner of a draftingtable, and shouted into a dark inner office,\
\'93Goin out to eat, Mr. Specker.\'94\
\
\'93All right go ahead,\'94 replied a goaty quavering from the inner office.\
\
\'93How\'92s the old man?\'94 asked Baldwin as they went out the door.\
\
\'93Ole Specker? Bout on his last legs ... but he\'92s been thataway for\
years poa ole soul. Honest George I\'92d feel mighty mean if anythin\
happened to poa ole Specker.... He\'92s the only honest man in the city of\
New York, an he\'92s got a head on his shoulders too.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s never made anything much by it,\'94 said Baldwin.\
\
\'93He may yet.... He may yet.... Man you ought to see his plans for\
allsteel buildins. He\'92s got an idea the skyscraper of the future\'92ll be\
built of steel and glass. We\'92ve been experimenting with vitrous tile\
recently.... cristamighty some of his plans would knock yer eye out....\
He\'92s got a great sayin about some Roman emperor who found Rome of brick\
and left it of marble. Well he says he\'92s found New York of brick an\
that he\'92s goin to leave it of steel ... steel an glass. I\'92ll have to\
show you his project for a rebuilt city. It\'92s some pipedream.\'94\
\
They settled on a cushioned bench in the corner of the restaurant that\
smelled of steak and the grill. Sandbourne stretched his legs out under\
the table.\
\
\'93Wow this is luxury,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Phil let\'92s have a cocktail,\'94 said Baldwin from behind the bill of\
fare. \'93I tell you Phil, it\'92s the first five years that\'92s the hardest.\'94\
\
\'93You needn\'92t worry George, you\'92re the hustlin kind.... I\'92m the ole\
stick in the mud.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t see why, you can always get a job as a draftsman.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a fine future I muss say, to spend ma life with the corner of a\
draftintable stuck in ma bally.... Christ-amighty man!\'94\
\
\'93Well Specker and Sandbourne may be a famous firm yet.\'94\
\
\'93People\'92ll be goin round in flyin machines by that time an you and\
me\'92ll be laid out with our toes to the daisies.\'94\
\
\'93Here\'92s luck anyway.\'94\
\
\'93Here\'92s lead in yer pencil, George.\'94\
\
They drank down the Martinis and started eating their oysters.\
\
\'93I wonder if it\'92s true that oysters turn to leather in your stomach\
when you drink alcohol with em.\'94\
\
\'93Search me.... Say by the way Phil how are you getting on with that\
little stenographer you were taking out?\'94\
\
\'93Man the food an drink an theaters I\'92ve wasted on that lil girl....\
She\'92s got me run to a standstill.... Honest she has. You\'92re a sensible\
feller, George, to keep away from the women.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe,\'94 said Baldwin slowly and spat an olive stone into his clenched\
fist.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The first thing they heard was the quavering whistle that came from a\
little wagon at the curb opposite the entrance to the ferry. A small\
boy broke away from the group of immigrants that lingered in the\
ferryhouse and ran over to the little wagon.\
\
\'93Sure it\'92s like a steam engine an its fulla monkeynuts,\'94 he yelled\
running back.\
\
\'93Padraic you stay here.\'94\
\
\'93And this here\'92s the L station, South Ferry,\'94 went on Tim Halloran who\
had come down to meet them. \'93Up thataway\'92s Battery Park an Bowling\
Green an Wall Street an th\'92 financial district.... Come along Padraic\
your Uncle Timothy\'92s goin to take ye on th\'92 Ninth Avenoo L.\'94\
\
There were only three people left at the ferrylanding, an old woman\
with a blue handkerchief on her head and a young woman with a magenta\
shawl, standing at either end of a big corded trunk studded with brass\
tacks; and an old man with a greenish stub of a beard and a face lined\
and twisted like the root of a dead oak. The old woman was whimpering\
with wet eyes: \'93Dove andiamo Madonna mia, Madonna mia?\'94 The young\
woman was unfolding a letter blinking at the ornate writing. Suddenly\
she went over to the old man, \'93Non posso leggere,\'94 holding out the\
letter to him. He wrung his hands, letting his head roll back and\
forth, saying over and over again something she couldn\'92t understand.\
She shrugged her shoulders and smiled and went back to the trunk. A\
Sicilian with sideburns was talking to the old woman. He grabbed the\
trunk by its cord and pulled it over to a spring wagon with a white\
horse that stood across the street. The two women followed the trunk.\
The Sicilian held out his hand to the young woman. The old woman still\
muttering and whimpering hoisted herself painfully onto the back of the\
wagon. When the Sicilian leaned over to read the letter he nudged the\
young woman with his shoulder. She stiffened. \'93Awright,\'94 he said. Then\
as he shook the reins on the horse\'92s back he turned back towards the\
old woman and shouted, \'93Cinque le due.... Awright.\'94\
\
\
\
\
IV. Tracks\
\
          _The rumpetybump rumpetybump spaced out, slackened; bumpers\
          banged all down the train. The man dropped off the rods. He\
          couldnt move for stiffness. It was pitchblack. Very slowly\
          he crawled out, hoisted himself to his knees, to his feet\
          until he leaned panting against the freightcar. His body\
          was not his own; his muscles were smashed wood, his bones\
          were twisted rods. A lantern burst his eyes._\
\
          \'93_Get outa here quick yous. Company detectives is beatin\
          through de yards._\'94\
\
          \'93_Say feller, is this New York?_\'94\
\
          \'93_You\'92re goddam right it is. Juss foller my lantern; you\
          kin git out along de waterfront._\'94\
\
          _His feet could barely stumble through the long gleaming\
          v\'92s and crisscrossed lines of tracks, he tripped and fell\
          over a bundle of signal rods. At last he was sitting on the\
          edge of a wharf with his head in his hands. The water made\
          a soothing noise against the piles like the lapping of a\
          dog. He took a newspaper out of his pocket and unwrapped\
          a hunk of bread and a slice of gristly meat. He ate them\
          dry, chewing and chewing before he could get any moisture\
          in his mouth. Then he got unsteadily to his feet, brushed\
          the crumbs off his knees, and looked about him. Southward\
          beyond the tracks the murky sky was drenched with orange\
          glow._\
\
          \'93_The Gay White Way,\'94 he said aloud in a croaking voice.\
          \'93The Gay White Way._\'94\
\
\
Through the rainstriped window Jimmy Herf was watching the umbrellas\
bob in the slowly swirling traffic that flowed up Broadway. There was a\
knock at the door; \'93Come in,\'94 said Jimmy and turned back to the\
window when he saw that the waiter wasn\'92t Pat. The waiter switched\
on the light. Jimmy saw him reflected in the windowpane, a lean\
spikyhaired man holding aloft in one hand the dinnertray on which\
the silver covers were grouped like domes. Breathing hard the waiter\
advanced into the room dragging a folding stand after him with his free\
hand. He jerked open the stand, set the tray on it and laid a cloth on\
the round table. A greasy pantry smell came from him. Jimmy waited till\
he\'92d gone to turn round. Then he walked about the table tipping up the\
silver covers; soup with little green things in it, roast lamb, mashed\
potatoes, mashed turnips, spinach, no desert either.\
\
\'93Muddy.\'94 \'93Yes deary,\'94 the voice wailed frailly through the folding\
doors.\
\
\'93Dinner\'92s ready mother dear.\'94\
\
\'93You begin darling boy, I\'92ll be right in....\'94\
\
\'93But I dont want to begin without you mother.\'94\
\
He walked round the table straightening knives and forks. He put a\
napkin over his arm. The head waiter at Delmonico\'92s was arranging the\
table for Graustark and the Blind King of Bohemia and Prince Henry the\
Navigator and ...\
\
\'93Mother who d\'92you want to be Mary Queen of Scots or Lady Jane Grey?\'94\
\
\'93But they both had their heads chopped off honey.... I dont want to\
have my head chopped off.\'94 Mother had on her salmoncolored teagown.\
When she opened the folding doors a wilted smell of cologne and\
medicines seeped out of the bedroom, trailed after her long lacefringed\
sleeves. She had put a little too much powder on her face, but her\
hair, her lovely brown hair was done beautifully. They sat down\
opposite one another; she set a plate of soup in front of him, lifting\
it between two long blueveined hands.\
\
He ate the soup that was watery and not hot enough. \'93Oh I forgot the\
cro\'fbtons, honey.\'94\
\
\'93Muddy ... mother why arent you eating your soup?\'94\
\
\'93I dont seem to like it much this evening. I couldn\'92t think what to\
order tonight my head ached so. It doesn\'92t matter.\'94\
\
\'93Would you rather be Cleopatra? She had a wonderful appetite and ate\
everything that was put before her like a good little girl.\'94\
\
\'93Even pearls.... She put a pearl in a glass of vinegar and drank it\
down....\'94 Her voice trembled. She stretched out her hand to him across\
the table; he patted her hand manfully and smiled. \'93Only you and me\
Jimmy boy.... Honey you\'92ll always love your mother wont you?\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter muddy dear?\'94\
\
\'93Oh nothing; I feel strange this evening.... Oh I\'92m so tired of never\
really feeling well.\'94\
\
\'93But after you\'92ve had your operation....\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes after I\'92ve had my operation.... Deary there\'92s a paper of fresh\
butter on the windowledge in the bathroom.... I\'92ll put some on these\
turnips if you fetch it for me.... I\'92m afraid I\'92ll have to complain\
about the food again. This lamb\'92s not all it should be; I hope it wont\
make us sick.\'94\
\
Jimmy ran through the folding doors and his mother\'92s room into the\
little passage that smelled of mothballs and silky bits of clothing\
littered on a chair; the red rubber tubing of a douche swung in his\
face as he opened the bathroom door; the whiff of medicines made his\
ribs contract with misery. He pushed up the window at the end of the\
tub. The ledge was gritty and feathery specks of soot covered the plate\
turned up over the butter. He stood a moment staring down the airshaft,\
breathing through his mouth to keep from smelling the coalgas that\
rose from the furnaces. Below him a maid in a white cap leaned out of\
a window and talked to one of the furnacemen who stood looking up at\
her with his bare grimy arms crossed over his chest. Jimmy strained his\
ears to hear what they were saying; to be dirty and handle coal all day\
and have grease in your hair and up to your armpits.\
\
\'93Jimmee!\'94\
\
\'93Coming mother.\'94 Blushing he slammed down the window and walked back\
to the sittingroom, slowly so that the red would have time to fade out\
of his face.\
\
\'93Dreaming again, Jimmy. My little dreamer.\'94\
\
He put the butter beside his mother\'92s plate and sat down.\
\
\'93Hurry up and eat your lamb while it\'92s hot. Why dont you try a little\
French mustard on it? It\'92ll make it taste better.\'94\
\
The mustard burnt his tongue, brought tears to his eyes.\
\
\'93Is it too hot?\'94 mother asked laughing. \'93You must learn to like hot\
things.... He always liked hot things.\'94\
\
\'93Who mother?\'94\
\
\'93Someone I loved very much.\'94\
\
They were silent. He could hear himself chewing. A few rattling sounds\
of cabs and trolleycars squirmed in brokenly through the closed\
windows. The steampipes knocked and hissed. Down the airshaft the\
furnaceman with grease up to his armpits was spitting words out of his\
wabbly mouth up at the maid in the starched cap--dirty words. Mustard\'92s\
the color of ...\
\
\'93A penny for your thoughts.\'94\
\
\'93I wasn\'92t thinking of anything.\'94\
\
\'93We mustn\'92t have any secrets from each other dear. Remember you\'92re the\
only comfort your mother has in the world.\'94\
\
\'93I wonder what it\'92d be like to be a seal, a little harbor seal.\'94\
\
\'93Very chilly I should think.\'94\
\
\'93But you wouldn\'92t feel it.... Seals are protected by a layer of blubber\
so that they\'92re always warm even sitting on an iceberg. But it would be\
such fun to swim around in the sea whenever you wanted to. They travel\
thousands of miles without stopping.\'94\
\
\'93But mother\'92s traveled thousands of miles without stopping and so have\
you.\'94\
\
\'93When?\'94\
\
\'93Going abroad and coming back.\'94 She was laughing at him with bright\
eyes.\
\
\'93Oh but that\'92s in a boat.\'94\
\
\'93And when we used to go cruising on the _Mary Stuart_.\'94\
\
\'93Oh tell me about that muddy.\'94\
\
There was a knock. \'93Come.\'94 The spikyhaired waiter put his head in the\
door.\
\
\'93Can I clear mum?\'94\
\
\'93Yes and bring me some fruit salad and see that the fruit is fresh\
cut.... Things are wretched this evening.\'94\
\
Puffing, the waiter was piling dishes on the tray. \'93I\'92m sorry mum,\'94 he\
puffed.\
\
\'93All right, I know it\'92s not your fault waiter.... What\'92ll you have\
Jimmy?\'94\
\
\'93May I have a meringue glac\'e9 muddy?\'94\
\
\'93All right if you\'92ll be very good.\'94\
\
\'93Yea,\'94 Jimmy let out a yell.\
\
\'93Darling you mustn\'92t shout like that at table.\'94\
\
\'93But we dont mind when there are just the two of us.... Hooray meringue\
glac\'e9.\'94\
\
\'93James a gentleman always behaves the same way whether he\'92s in his own\
home or in the wilds of Africa.\'94\
\
\'93Gee I wish we were in the wilds of Africa.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d be terrified, dear.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d shout like that and scare away all the lions and tigers.... Yes I\
would.\'94\
\
The waiter came back with two plates on the tray. \'93I\'92m sorry mum but\
meringue glac\'e9\'92s all out.... I brought the young gentleman chocolate\
icecream instead.\'94\
\
\'93Oh mother.\'94\
\
\'93Never mind dear.... It would have been too rich anyway.... You eat\
that and I\'92ll let you run out after dinner and buy some candy.\'94\
\
\'93Oh goody.\'94\
\
\'93But dont eat the icecream too fast or you\'92ll have collywobbles.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m all through.\'94\
\
\'93You bolted it you little wretch.... Put on your rubbers honey.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s not raining at all.\'94\
\
\'93Do as mother wants you dear.... And please dont be long. I put you on\
your honor to come right back. Mother\'92s not a bit well tonight and she\
gets so nervous when you\'92re out in the street. There are such terrible\
dangers....\'94\
\
He sat down to pull on his rubbers. While he was snapping them tight\
over his heels she came to him with a dollar bill. She put her arm with\
its long silky sleeve round his shoulder. \'93Oh my darling.\'94\
\
She was crying.\
\
\'93Mother you mustnt.\'94 He squeezed her hard; he could feel the ribs\
of her corset against his arms. \'93I\'92ll be back in a minute, in the\
teenciest weenciest minute.\'94\
\
On the stairs where a brass rod held the dull crimson carpet in place\
on each step, Jimmy pulled off his rubbers and stuffed them into the\
pockets of his raincoat. With his head in the air he hurried through\
the web of prying glances of the bellhops on the bench beside the\
desk. \'93Goin fer a walk?\'94 the youngest lighthaired bellhop asked him.\
Jimmy nodded wisely, slipped past the staring buttons of the doorman\
and out onto Broadway full of clangor and footsteps and faces putting\
on shadowmasks when they slid out of the splotches of light from\
stores and arclamps. He walked fast uptown past the Ansonia. In the\
doorway lounged a blackbrowed man with a cigar in his mouth, maybe a\
kidnapper. But nice people live in the Ansonia like where we live.\
Next a telegraph office, drygoods stores, a dyers and cleaners, a\
Chinese laundry sending out a scorched mysterious steamy smell. He\
walks faster, the chinks are terrible kidnappers. Footpads. A man with\
a can of coaloil brushes past him, a greasy sleeve brushes against his\
shoulder, smells of sweat and coaloil; suppose he\'92s a firebug. The\
thought of firebug gives him gooseflesh. Fire. Fire.\
\
Huyler\'92s; there\'92s a comfortable fudgy odor mixed with the smell of\
nickel and wellwiped marble outside the door, and the smell of cooking\
chocolate curls warmly from the gratings under the windows. Black and\
orange cr\'eapepaper favors for Hallowe\'92en. He is just going in when he\
thinks of the Mirror place two blocks further up, those little silver\
steamengines and automobiles they give you with your change. I\'92ll\
hurry; on rollerskates it\'92d take less time, you could escape from\
bandits, thugs, holdupmen, on rollerskates, shooting over your shoulder\
with a long automatic, bing ... one of em down! that\'92s the worst of\
em, bing ... there\'92s another; the rollerskates are magic rollerskates,\
whee ... up the brick walls of the houses, over the roofs, vaulting\
chimneys, up the Flatiron Building, scooting across the cables of\
Brooklyn Bridge.\
\
Mirror candies; this time he goes in without hesitating. He stands at\
the counter a while before anyone comes to wait on him. \'93Please a pound\
of sixty cents a pound mixed chocolate creams,\'94 he rattled off. She is\
a blond lady, a little crosseyed, and looks at him spitefully without\
answering. \'93Please I\'92m in a hurry if you dont mind.\'94\
\
\'93All right, everybody in their turn,\'94 she snaps. He stands blinking at\
her with flaming cheeks. She pushes him a box all wrapped up with a\
check on it \'93Pay at the desk.\'94 I\'92m not going to cry. The lady at the\
desk is small and grey-haired. She takes his dollar through a little\
door like the little doors little animals go in and out of in the Small\
Mammal House. The cash register makes a cheerful tinkle, glad to get\
the money. A quarter, a dime, a nickel and a little cup, is that forty\
cents? But only a little cup instead of a steamengine or an automobile.\
He picks up the money and leaves the little cup and hurries out with\
the box under his arm. Mother\'92ll say I\'92ve been too long. He walks home\
looking straight ahead of him, smarting from the meanness of the blond\
lady.\
\
\'93Ha ... been out abuyin candy,\'94 said the lighthaired bellhop. \'93I\'92ll\
give you some if you come up later,\'94 whispered Jimmy as he passed. The\
brass rods rang when he kicked them running up the stairs. Outside the\
chocolate-colored door that had 503 on it in white enameled letters he\
remembered his rubbers. He set the candy on the floor and pulled them\
on over his damp shoes. Lucky Muddy wasn\'92t waiting for him with the\
door open. Maybe she\'92d seen him coming from the window.\
\
\'93Mother.\'94 She wasn\'92t in the sittingroom. He was terrified. She\'92d gone\
out, she\'92d gone away. \'93Mother!\'94\
\
\'93Come here dear,\'94 came her voice weakly from the bedroom.\
\
He pulled off his hat and raincoat and rushed in. \'93Mother what\'92s the\
matter?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing honey.... I\'92ve a headache that\'92s all, a terrible headache....\
Put some cologne on a handkerchief and put it on my head nicely, and\
dont please dear get it in my eye the way you did last time.\'94\
\
She lay on the bed in a skyblue wadded wrapper. Her face was purplish\
pale. The silky salmoncolored teagown hung limp over a chair; on the\
floor lay her corsets in a tangle of pink strings. Jimmy put the wet\
handkerchief carefully on her forehead. The cologne reeked strong,\
prickling his nostrils as he leaned over her.\
\
\'93That\'92s so good,\'94 came her voice feebly. \'93Dear call up Aunt Emily,\
Riverside 2466, and ask her if she can come round this evening. I want\
to talk to her.... Oh my head\'92s bursting.\'94\
\
His heart thumping terribly and tears blearing his eyes he went to the\
telephone. Aunt Emily\'92s voice came unexpectedly soon.\
\
\'93Aunt Emily mother\'92s kinder sick.... She wants you to come around....\
She\'92s coming right away mother dear,\'94 he shouted, \'93isn\'92t that fine?\
She\'92s coming right around.\'94 He tiptoed back into his mother\'92s room,\
picked up the corset and the teagown and hung them in the wardrobe.\
\
\'93Deary\'94 came her frail voice \'93take the hairpins out of my hair, they\
hurt my head.... Oh honeyboy I feel as if my head would burst....\'94 He\
felt gently through her brown hair that was silkier than the teagown\
and pulled out the hairpins.\
\
\'93Ou dont, you are hurting me.\'94\
\
\'93Mother I didn\'92t mean to.\'94\
\
Aunt Emily, thin in a blue mackintosh thrown over her evening dress,\
hurried into the room, her thin mouth in a pucker of sympathy. She\
saw her sister lying twisted with pain on the bed and the skinny\
whitefaced boy in short pants standing beside her with his hands full\
of hairpins.\
\
\'93What is it Lil?\'94 she asked quietly.\
\
\'93My dear something terrible\'92s the matter with me,\'94 came Lily Herf\'92s\
voice in a gasping hiss.\
\
\'93James,\'94 said Aunt Emily harshly, \'93you must run off to bed.... Mother\
needs perfect quiet.\'94\
\
\'93Good night muddy dear,\'94 he said.\
\
Aunt Emily patted him on the back. \'93Dont worry James I\'92ll attend to\
everything.\'94 She went to the telephone and began calling a number in a\
low precise voice.\
\
The box of candy was on the parlor table; Jimmy felt guilty when he put\
it under his arm. As he passed the bookcase he snatched out a volume\
of the American Cyclop\'e6dia and tucked it under the other arm. His aunt\
did not notice when he went out the door. The dungeon gates opened.\
Outside was an Arab stallion and two trusty retainers waiting to speed\
him across the border to freedom. Three doors down was his room. It was\
stuffed with silent chunky darkness. The light switched on obediently\
lighting up the cabin of the schooner _Mary Stuart_. All right Captain\
weigh anchor and set your course for the Windward Isles and dont\
let me be disturbed before dawn; I have important papers to peruse.\
He tore off his clothes and knelt beside the bed in his pyjamas.\
Nowilaymedowntosleep Ipraythelordmysoultokeep Ifishoulddiebeforeiwake\
Ipraythelordmysoultotake.\
\
Then he opened the box of candy and set the pillows together at the end\
of the bed under the light. His teeth broke through the chocolate into\
a squashysweet filling. Let\'92s see ...\
\
     A the first of the vowels, the first letter in all written\
     alphabets except the Amharic or Abyssinian, of which it is\
     the thirteenth, and the Runic of which it is the tenth....\
\
Darn it that\'92s a hairy one....\
\
     AA, Aachen (see Aix-la-Chapelle).\
\
     Aardvark ...\
\
Gee he\'92s funny looking ...\
\
     (orycteropus capensis), a plantigrade animal of the class\
     mammalia, order edentata, peculiar to Africa.\
\
     Abd,\
\
     Abd-el-halim, an Egyptian prince, son of Mehmet Ali and a\
     white slave woman....\
\
His cheeks burned as he read:\
\
     The Queen of the White Slaves.\
\
     Abdomen (lat. of undetermined etymology) ... the lower part\
     of the body included between the level of the diaphragm and\
     that of the pelvis....\
\
     Abelard ... The relation of master and pupil was not long\
     preserved. A warmer sentiment than esteem filled their\
     hearts and the unlimited opportunities of intercourse\
     which were afforded them by the canon who confided in\
     Abelard\'92s age (he was now almost forty), and in his public\
     character, were fatal to the peace of both. The condition\
     of Heloise was on the point of betraying their intimacy....\
     Fulbert now abandoned himself to a transport of savage\
     vindictiveness ... burst into Abelard\'92s chamber with a band\
     of ruffians and gratified his revenge by inflicting on him\
     an atrocious mutilation....\
\
     Abelites ... denounced sexual intercourse as service of\
     Satan.\
\
     Abimelech I, son of Gideon by a Sheshemite concubine, who\
     made himself king after murdering all his seventy brethren\
     except Jotham, and was killed while besieging the tower of\
     Thebez ...\
\
     Abortion ...\
\
No; his hands were icy and he felt a little sick from stuffing down so\
many chocolates.\
\
     Abracadabra.\
\
     Abydos ...\
\
He got up to drink a glass of water before Abyssinia with engravings of\
desert mountains and the burning of Magdala by the British.\
\
His eyes smarted. He was stiff and sleepy. He looked at his Ingersoll.\
Eleven o\'92clock. Terror gripped him suddenly. If mother was dead...?\
He pressed his face into the pillow. She stood over him in her white\
ballgown that had lace crisply on it and a train sweeping behind on\
satin rustling ruffles and her hand softly fragrant gently stroked his\
cheek. A rush of sobs choked him. He tossed on the bed with his face\
shoved hard into the knotty pillow. For a long time he couldn\'92t stop\
crying.\
\
He woke up to find the light burning dizzily and the room stuffy and\
hot. The book was on the floor and the candy squashed under him oozing\
stickily from its box. The watch had stopped at 1.45. He opened the\
window, put the chocolates in the bureau drawer and was about to\
snap off the light when he remembered. Shivering with terror he put\
on his bathrobe and slippers and tiptoed down the darkened hall. He\
listened outside the door. People were talking low. He knocked faintly\
and turned the knob. A hand pulled the door open hard and Jimmy was\
blinking in the face of a tall cleanshaven man with gold eyeglasses.\
The folding doors were closed; in front of them stood a starched nurse.\
\
\'93James dear, go back to bed and dont worry,\'94 said Aunt Emily in a tired\
whisper. \'93Mother\'92s very ill and must be absolutely quiet, but there\'92s\
no more danger.\'94\
\
\'93Not for the present at least, Mrs. Merivale,\'94 said the doctor\
breathing on his eyeglasses.\
\
\'93The little dear,\'94 came the nurse\'92s voice low and purry and reassuring,\
\'93he\'92s been sitting up worrying all night and he never bothered us once.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll go back and tuck you into bed,\'94 said Aunt Emily. \'93My James always\
likes that.\'94\
\
\'93May I see mother, just a peek so\'92s I\'92ll know she\'92s all right.\'94 Jimmy\
looked up timidly at the big face with the eyeglasses.\
\
The doctor nodded. \'93Well I must go.... I shall drop by at four or\
five to see how things go.... Goodnight Mrs. Merivale. Goodnight Miss\
Billings. Goodnight son....\'94\
\
\'93This way....\'94 The trained nurse put her hand on Jimmy\'92s shoulder. He\
wriggled out from under and walked behind her.\
\
There was a light on in the corner of mother\'92s room shaded by a towel\
pinned round it. From the bed came the rasp of breathing he did not\
recognize. Her crumpled face was towards him, the closed eyelids\
violet, the mouth screwed to one side. For a half a minute he stared at\
her. \'93All right I\'92ll go back to bed now,\'94 he whispered to the nurse.\
His blood pounded deafeningly. Without looking at his aunt or at the\
nurse he walked stiffly to the outer door. His aunt said something.\
He ran down the corridor to his own room, slammed the door and bolted\
it. He stood stiff and cold in the center of the room with his fists\
clenched. \'93I hate them. I hate them,\'94 he shouted aloud. Then gulping\
a dry sob he turned out the light and slipped into bed between the\
shiverycold sheets.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93With all the business you have, madame,\'94 Emile was saying in a\
singsong voice, \'93I should think you\'92d need someone to help you with the\
store.\'94\
\
\'93I know that ... I\'92m killing myself with work; I know that,\'94 sighed\
Madame Rigaud from her stool at the cashdesk. Emile was silent a long\
time staring at the cross section of a Westphalia ham that lay on a\
marble slab beside his elbow. Then he said timidly: \'93A woman like you,\
a beautiful woman like you, Madame Rigaud, is never without friends.\'94\
\
\'93Ah \'e7a.... I have lived too much in my time.... I have no more\
confidence.... Men are a set of brutes, and women, Oh I dont get on\
with women a bit!\'94\
\
\'93History and literature ...\'94 began Emile.\
\
The bell on the top of the door jangled. A man and a woman stamped into\
the shop. She had yellow hair and a hat like a flowerbed.\
\
\'93Now Billy dont be extravagant,\'94 she was saying.\
\
\'93But Norah we got have sumpen te eat.... An I\'92ll be all jake by\
Saturday.\'94\
\
\'93Nutten\'92ll be jake till you stop playin the ponies.\'94\
\
\'93Aw go long wud yer.... Let\'92s have some liverwurst.... My that cold\
breast of turkey looks good....\'94\
\
\'93Piggywiggy,\'94 cooed the yellowhaired girl.\
\
\'93Lay off me will ye, I\'92m doing this.\'94\
\
\'93Yes sir ze breast of turkee is veree goud.... We ave ole cheekens too,\
steel \'92ot.... Emile mong ami cherchez moi uns de ces petits poulets\
dans la cuisin-e.\'94 Madame Rigaud spoke like an oracle without moving\
from her stool by the cashdesk. The man was fanning himself with a\
thickbrimmed straw hat that had a checked band.\
\
\'93Varm tonight,\'94 said Madame Rigaud.\
\
\'93It sure is.... Norah we ought to have gone down to the Island instead\
of bummin round this town.\'94\
\
\'93Billy you know why we couldn\'92t go perfectly well.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t rub it in. Aint I tellin ye it\'92ll be all jake by Saturday.\'94\
\
\'93History and literature,\'94 continued Emile when the customers had gone\
off with the chicken, leaving Madame Rigaud a silver half dollar to\
lock up in the till ... \'93history and literature teach us that there\
are friendships, that there sometimes comes love that is worthy of\
confidence....\'94\
\
\'93History and literature!\'94 Madame Rigaud growled with internal laughter.\
\'93A lot of good that\'92ll do us.\'94\
\
\'93But dont you ever feel lonely in a big foreign city like this...?\
Everything is so hard. Women look in your pocket not in your heart....\
I cant stand it any more.\'94\
\
Madame Rigaud\'92s broad shoulders and her big breasts shook with\
laughter. Her corsets creaked when she lifted herself still laughing\
off the stool. \'93Emile, you\'92re a good-looking fellow and steady and\
you\'92ll get on in the world.... But I\'92ll never put myself in a man\'92s\
power again.... I\'92ve suffered too much.... Not if you came to me with\
five thousand dollars.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a very cruel woman.\'94\
\
Madame Rigaud laughed again. \'93Come along now, you can help me close up.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Sunday weighed silent and sunny over downtown. Baldwin sat at his desk\
in his shirtsleeves reading a calfbound lawbook. Now and then he wrote\
down a note on a scratchpad in a wide regular hand. The phone rang loud\
in the hot stillness. He finished the paragraph he was reading and\
strode over to answer it.\
\
\'93Yes I\'92m here alone, come on over if you want to.\'94 He put down the\
receiver. \'93God damn it,\'94 he muttered through clenched teeth.\
\
Nellie came in without knocking, found him pacing back and forth in\
front of the window.\
\
\'93Hello Nellie,\'94 he said without looking up; she stood still staring at\
him.\
\
\'93Look here Georgy this cant go on.\'94\
\
\'93Why cant it?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sick of always pretendin an deceivin.\'94\
\
\'93Nobody\'92s found out anything, have they?\'94\
\
\'93Oh of course not.\'94\
\
She went up to him and straightened his necktie. He kissed her gently\
on the mouth. She wore a frilled muslin dress of a reddish lilac color\
and had a blue sunshade in her hand.\
\
\'93How\'92s things Georgy?\'94\
\
\'93Wonderful. D\'92you know, you people have brought me luck? I\'92ve got\
several good cases on hand now and I\'92ve made some very valuable\
connections.\'94\
\
\'93Little luck it\'92s brought me. I haven\'92t dared go to confession yet. The\
priest\'92ll be thinkin I\'92ve turned heathen.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s Gus?\'94\
\
\'93Oh full of his plans.... Might think he\'92d earned the money, he\'92s\
gettin that cocky about it.\'94\
\
\'93Look Nellie how would it be if you left Gus and came and lived with\
me? You could get a divorce and we could get married.... Everything\
would be all right then.\'94\
\
\'93Like fun it would.... You dont mean it anyhow.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s been worth it Nellie, honestly it has.\'94 He put his arms round\
her and kissed her hard still lips. She pushed him away.\
\
\'93Anyways I aint comin here again.... Oh I was so happy comin up the\
stairs thinkin about seein you.... You\'92re paid an the business is all\
finished.\'94\
\
He noticed that the little curls round her forehead were loose. A wisp\
of hair hung over one eyebrow.\
\
\'93Nellie we mustn\'92t part bitterly like this.\'94\
\
\'93Why not will ye tell me?\'94\
\
\'93Because we\'92ve both loved one another.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not goin to cry.\'94 She patted her nose with a little rolledup\
handkerchief. \'93Georgy I\'92m goin to hate ye.... Goodby.\'94 The door snapped\
sharply to behind her.\
\
Baldwin sat at his desk and chewed the end of a pencil. A faint\
pungence of her hair lingered in his nostrils. His throat was stiff\
and lumpy. He coughed. The pencil fell out of his mouth. He wiped the\
saliva off with his handkerchief and settled himself in his chair. From\
bleary the crowded paragraphs of the lawbook became clear. He tore\
the written sheet off the scratchpad and clipped it to the top of a\
pile of documents. On the new sheet he began: Decision of the Supreme\
Court of the State of New York.... Suddenly he sat up straight in his\
chair, and started biting the end of his pencil again. From outside\
came the endless sultry whistle of a peanut wagon. \'93Oh well, that\'92s\
that,\'94 he said aloud. He went on writing in a wide regular hand: Case\
of Patterson vs. The State of New York.... Decision of the Supreme ...\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Bud sat by a window in the Seamen\'92s Union reading slowly and carefully\
through a newspaper. Next him two men with freshly shaved rawsteak\
cheeks cramped into white collars and blue serge storesuits were\
ponderously playing chess. One of them smoked a pipe that made a little\
clucking noise when he drew on it. Outside rain beat incessantly on a\
wide glimmering square.\
\
     Banzai, live a thousand years, cried the little gray men\
     of the fourth platoon of Japanese sappers as they advanced\
     to repair the bridge over the Yalu River ... Special\
     correspondent of the New York Herald ...\
\
\'93Checkmate,\'94 said the man with the pipe. \'93Damn it all let\'92s go have a\
drink. This is no night to be sitting here sober.\'94\
\
\'93I promised the ole woman ...\'94\
\
\'93None o that crap Jess, I know your kinda promises.\'94 A big crimson hand\
thickly furred with yellow hairs brushed the chessmen into their box.\
\'93Tell the ole woman you had to have a nip to keep the weather out.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s no lie neither.\'94\
\
Bud watched their shadows hunched into the rain pass the window.\
\
\'93What you name?\'94\
\
Bud turned sharp from the window startled by a shrill squeaky voice\
in his ear. He was looking into the fireblue eyes of a little yellow\
man who had a face like a toad, large mouth, protruding eyes and thick\
closecropped black hair.\
\
Bud\'92s jaw set. \'93My name\'92s Smith, what about it?\'94\
\
The little man held out a square callouspalmed hand, \'93Plis to meet yez.\
Me Matty.\'94\
\
Bud took the hand in spite of himself. It squeezed his until he winced.\
\'93Matty what?\'94 he asked. \'93Me juss Matty ... Laplander Matty ... Come\
have drink.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m flat,\'94 said Bud. \'93Aint got a red cent.\'94\
\
\'93On me. Me too much money, take some....\'94 Matty shoved a hand into\
either pocket of his baggy checked suit and punched Bud in the chest\
with two fistfuls of greenbacks.\
\
\'93Aw keep yer money ... I\'92ll take a drink with yous though.\'94\
\
By the time they got to the saloon on the corner of Pearl Street Bud\'92s\
elbows and knees were soaked and a trickle of cold rain was running\
down his neck. When they went up to the bar Laplander Matty put down a\
five dollar bill.\
\
\'93Me treat everybody; very happy yet tonight.\'94\
\
Bud was tackling the free lunch. \'93Hadn\'92t et in a dawg\'92s age,\'94 he\
explained when he went back to the bar to take his drink. The whisky\
burnt his throat all the way down, dried wet clothes and made him\
feel the way he used to feel when he was a kid and got off to go to a\
baseball game Saturday afternoon.\
\
\'93Put it there Lap,\'94 he shouted slapping the little man\'92s broad back.\
\'93You an me\'92s friends from now on.\'94\
\
\'93Hey landlubber, tomorrow me an you ship togezzer. What say?\'94\
\
\'93Sure we will.\'94\
\
\'93Now we go up Bowery Street look at broads. Me pay.\'94\
\
\'93Aint a Bowery broad would go wid yer, ye little Yap,\'94 shouted a tall\
drunken man with drooping black mustaches who had lurched in between\
them as they swayed in the swinging doors.\
\
\'93Zey vont, vont zey?\'94 said the Lap hauling off. One of his hammershaped\
fists shot in a sudden uppercut under the man\'92s jaw. The man rose off\
his feet and soared obliquely in through the swinging doors that closed\
on him. A shout went up from inside the saloon.\
\
\'93I\'92ll be a sonofabitch, Lappy, I\'92ll be a sonofabitch,\'94 roared Bud and\
slapped him on the back again.\
\
Arm in arm they careened up Pearl Street under the drenching rain. Bars\
yawned bright to them at the corners of rainseething streets. Yellow\
light off mirrors and brass rails and gilt frames round pictures of\
pink naked women was looped and slopped into whiskyglasses guzzled\
fiery with tipped back head, oozed bright through the blood, popped\
bubbly out of ears and eyes, dripped spluttering off fingertips. The\
raindark houses heaved on either side, streetlamps swayed like lanterns\
carried in a parade, until Bud was in a back room full of nudging faces\
with a woman on his knees. Laplander Matty stood with his arms round\
two girls\'92 necks, yanked his shirt open to show a naked man and a naked\
woman tattooed in red and green on his chest, hugging, stiffly coiled\
in a seaserpent and when he puffed out his chest and wiggled the skin\
with his fingers the tatooed man and woman wiggled and all the nudging\
faces laughed.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Phineas P. Blackhead pushed up the wide office window. He stood looking\
out over the harbor of slate and mica in the uneven roar of traffic,\
voices, racket of building that soared from the downtown streets\
bellying and curling like smoke in the stiff wind shoving down the\
Hudson out of the northwest.\
\
\'93Hay Schmidt, bring me my field glasses,\'94 he called over his shoulder.\
\'93Look ...\'94 He was focusing the glasses on a thickwaisted white steamer\
with a sooty yellow stack that was abreast of Governors Island. \'93Isn\'92t\
that the _Anonda_ coming in now?\'94\
\
Schmidt was a fat man who had shrunk. The skin hung in loose haggard\
wrinkles on his face. He took one look through the glasses. \'93Sure it\
is.\'94 He pushed down the window; the roar receded tapering hollowly like\
the sound of a sea shell.\
\
\'93Jiminy they were quick about it.... They\'92ll be docked in half an\
hour.... You beat it along over and get hold of Inspector Mulligan.\
He\'92s all fixed.... Dont take your eyes off him. Old Matanzas is out on\
the warpath trying to get an injunction against us. If every spoonful\
of manganese isnt off by tomorrow night I\'92ll cut your commission in\
half.... Do you get that?\'94\
\
Schmidt\'92s loose jowls shook when he laughed. \'93No danger sir.... You\
ought to know me by this time.\'94\
\
\'93Of course I do.... You\'92re a good feller Schmidt. I was just joking.\'94\
\
Phineas P. Blackhead was a lanky man with silver hair and a red\
hawkface; he slipped back into the mahogany armchair at his desk and\
rang an electric bell. \'93All right Charlie, show em in,\'94 he growled at\
the towheaded officeboy who appeared in the door. He rose stiffly from\
his desk and held out a hand. \'93How do you do Mr. Storrow ... How do\
you do Mr. Gold.... Make yourselves comfortable.... That\'92s it.... Now\
look here, about this strike. The attitude of the railroad and docking\
interests that I represent is one of frankness and honesty, you know\
that.... I have confidence, I can say I have the completest confidence,\
that we can settle this matter amicably and agreeably.... Of course you\
must meet me halfway.... We have I know the same interests at heart,\
the interests of this great city, of this great seaport....\'94 Mr. Gold\
moved his hat to the back of his head and cleared his throat with a\
loud barking noise. \'93Gentlemen, one of two roads lies before us ...\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
In the sunlight on the windowledge a fly sat scrubbing his wings with\
his hinder legs. He cleaned himself all over, twisting and untwisting\
his forelegs like a person soaping his hands, stroking the top of\
his lobed head carefully; brushing his hair. Jimmy\'92s hand hovered\
over the fly and slapped down. The fly buzzed tinglingly in his palm.\
He groped for it with two fingers, held it slowly squeezing it into\
mashed gray jelly between finger and thumb. He wiped it off under the\
windowledge. A hot sick feeling went through him. Poor old fly, after\
washing himself so carefully, too. He stood a long time looking down\
the airshaft through the dusty pane where the sun gave a tiny glitter\
to the dust. Now and then a man in shirtsleeves crossed the court below\
with a tray of dishes. Orders shouted and the clatter of dishwashing\
came up faintly from the kitchens.\
\
He stared through the tiny glitter of the dust on the windowpane.\
Mother\'92s had a stroke and next week I\'92ll go back to school.\
\
\'93Say Herfy have you learned to fight yet?\'94\
\
\'93Herfy an the Kid are goin to fight for the flyweight championship\
before lights.\'94\
\
\'93But I dont want to.\'94\
\
\'93Kid wants to.... Here he comes. Make a ring there you ginks.\'94\
\
\'93I dont want to, please.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve damn well got to, we\'92ll beat hell outa both of ye if you dont.\'94\
\
\'93Say Freddy that\'92s a nickel fine from you for swearing.\'94\
\
\'93Jez I forgot.\'94\
\
\'93There you go again.... Paste him in the slats.\'94\
\
\'93Go it Herfy, I\'92m bettin on yer.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it sock him.\'94\
\
The Kid\'92s white screwedup face bouncing in front of him like a balloon;\
his fist gets Jimmy in the mouth; a salty taste of blood from the cut\
lip. Jimmy strikes out, gets him down on the bed, pokes his knee in his\
belly. They pull him off and throw him back against the wall.\
\
\'93Go it Kid.\'94\
\
\'93Go it Herfy.\'94\
\
There\'92s a smell of blood in his nose and lungs; his breath rasps. A\
foot shoots out and trips him up.\
\
\'93That\'92s enough, Herfy\'92s licked.\'94\
\
\'93Girlboy ... Girlboy.\'94\
\
\'93But hell Freddy he had the Kid down.\'94\
\
\'93Shut up, don\'92t make such a racket.... Old Hoppy\'92ll be coming up.\'94\
\
\'93Just a little friendly bout, wasn\'92t it Herfy?\'94\
\
\'93Get outa my room, all of you, all of you,\'94 Jimmy screeches,\
tear-blinded, striking out with both arms.\
\
\'93Crybaby ... crybaby.\'94\
\
He slams the door behind them, pushes the desk against it and crawls\
trembling into bed. He turns over on his face and lies squirming with\
shame, biting the pillow.\
\
Jimmy stared through the tiny glitter of the dust on the windowpane.\
\
     DARLING\
\
     Your poor mother was very unhappy when she finally put you\
     on the train and went back to her big empty rooms at the\
     hotel. Dear, I am very lonely without you. Do you know what\
     I did? I got out all your toy soldiers, the ones that used\
     to be in the taking of Port Arthur, and set them all out in\
     battalions on the library shelf. Wasn\'92t that silly? Never\
     mind dear, Christmas\'92ll soon come round and I\'92ll have my\
     boy again....\
\
A crumpled face on a pillow; mother\'92s had a stroke and next week I\'92ll\
go back to school. Darkgrained skin growing flabby under her eyes, gray\
creeping up her brown hair. Mother never laughs. The stroke.\
\
He turned back suddenly into the room, threw himself on the bed with\
a thin leather book in his hand. The surf thundered loud on the\
barrier reef. He didn\'92t need to read. Jack was swimming fast through\
the calm blue waters of the lagoon, stood in the sun on the yellow\
beach shaking the briny drops off him, opened his nostrils wide to the\
smell of breadfruit roasting beside his solitary campfire. Birds of\
bright plumage shrieked and tittered from the tall ferny tops of the\
coconut palms. The room was drowsy hot. Jimmy fell asleep. There was a\
strawberry lemon smell, a smell of pineapples on the deck and mother\
was there in a white suit and a dark man in a yachtingcap, and the\
sunlight rippled on the milkytall sails. Mother\'92s soft laugh rises into\
a shriek O-o-o-ohee. A fly the size of a ferryboat walks towards them\
across the water, reaching out jagged crabclaws. \'93Yump Yimmy, yump; you\
can do it in two yumps,\'94 the dark man yells in his ear. \'93But please I\
dont want to ... I dont want to,\'94 Jimmy whines. The dark man\'92s beating\
him, yump yump yump.... \'93Yes one moment. Who is it?\'94\
\
Aunt Emily was at the door. \'93Why do you keep your door locked Jimmy....\
I never allow James to lock his door.\'94\
\
\'93I like it better that way, Aunt Emily.\'94\
\
\'93Imagine a boy asleep this time of the afternoon.\'94\
\
\'93I was reading _The Coral Island_ and I fell asleep.\'94 Jimmy was\
blushing.\
\
\'93All right. Come along. Miss Billings said not to stop by mother\'92s\
room. She\'92s asleep.\'94\
\
They were in the narrow elevator that smelled of castor oil; the\
colored boy grinned at Jimmy.\
\
\'93What did the doctor say Aunt Emily?\'94\
\
\'93Everything\'92s going as well as could be expected.... But you mustn\'92t\
worry about that. This evening you must have a real good time with your\
little cousins.... You dont see enough children of your own age Jimmy.\'94\
\
They were walking towards the river leaning into a gritty wind that\
swirled up the street cast out of iron under a dark silvershot sky.\
\
\'93I guess you\'92ll be glad to get back to school, James.\'94\
\
\'93Yes Aunt Emily.\'94\
\
\'93A boy\'92s school days are the happiest time in his life. You must be\
sure to write your mother once a week at least James.... You are all\
she has now.... Miss Billings and I will keep you informed.\'94\
\
\'93Yes Aunt Emily.\'94\
\
\'93And James I want you to know my James better. He\'92s the same age you\
are, only perhaps a little more developed and all that, and you ought\
to be good friends.... I wish Lily had sent you to Hotchkiss too.\'94\
\
\'93Yes Aunt Emily.\'94\
\
There were pillars of pink marble in the lower hall of Aunt Emily\'92s\
apartmenthouse and the elevatorboy wore a chocolate livery with brass\
buttons and the elevator was square and decorated with mirrors. Aunt\
Emily stopped before a wide red mahogany door on the seventh floor and\
fumbled in her purse for her key. At the end of the hall was a leaded\
window through which you could see the Hudson and steamboats and tall\
trees of smoke rising against the yellow sunset from the yards along\
the river. When Aunt Emily got the door open they heard the piano.\
\'93That\'92s Maisie doing her practicing.\'94 In the room where the piano was\
the rug was thick and mossy, the wallpaper was yellow with silveryshiny\
roses between the cream woodwork and the gold frames of oilpaintings\
of woods and people in a gondola and a fat cardinal drinking. Maisie\
tossed the pigtails off her shoulders as she jumped off the pianostool.\
She had a round creamy face and a slight pugnose. The metronome went on\
ticking.\
\
\'93Hello James,\'94 she said after she had tilted her mouth up to her\
mother\'92s to be kissed. \'93I\'92m awfully sorry poor Aunt Lily\'92s so sick.\'94\
\
\'93Arent you going to kiss your cousin, James?\'94 said Aunt Emily.\
\
Jimmy shambled up to Maisie and pushed his face against hers.\
\
\'93That\'92s a funny kind of a kiss,\'94 said Maisie.\
\
\'93Well you two children can keep each other company till dinner.\'94 Aunt\
Emily rustled through the blue velvet curtains into the next room.\
\
\'93We wont be able to go on calling you James.\'94 After she had stopped the\
metronome, Maisie stood staring with serious brown eyes at her cousin.\
\'93There cant be two Jameses can there?\'94\
\
\'93Mother calls me Jimmy.\'94\
\
\'93Jimmy\'92s a kinder common name, but I guess it\'92ll have to do till we can\
think of a better one.... How many jacks can you pick up?\'94\
\
\'93What are jacks?\'94\
\
\'93Gracious dont you know what jackstones are? Wait till James comes\
back, wont he laugh!\'94\
\
\'93I know Jack roses. Mother used to like them better\'92n any other kind.\'94\
\
\'93American Beauties are the only roses I like,\'94 announced Maisie\
flopping into a Morris chair. Jimmy stood on one leg kicking his heel\
with the toes of the other foot.\
\
\'93Where\'92s James?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92ll be home soon.... He\'92s having his riding lesson.\'94\
\
The twilight became leadensilent between them. From the trainyards came\
the scream of a locomotivewhistle and the clank of couplings on shunted\
freight cars. Jimmy ran to the window.\
\
\'93Say Maisie, do you like engines?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93I think they are horrid. Daddy says we\'92re going to move on account of\
the noise and smoke.\'94\
\
Through the gloom Jimmy could make out the beveled smooth bulk of a big\
locomotive. The smoke rolled out of the stack in huge bronze and lilac\
coils. Down the track a red light snapped green. The bell started to\
ring slowly, lazily. Forced draft snorting loud the train clankingly\
moved, gathered speed, slid into dusk swinging a red taillight.\
\
\'93Gee I wish we lived here,\'94 said Jimmy. \'93I\'92ve got two hundred and\
seventytwo pictures of locomotives, I\'92ll show em to you sometime if you\
like. I collect em.\'94\
\
\'93What a funny thing to collect.... Look Jimmy you pull the shade down\
and I\'92ll light the light.\'94\
\
When Maisie pushed the switch they saw James Merivale standing in the\
door. He had light wiry hair and a freckled face with a pugnose like\
Maisie\'92s. He had on riding breeches and black leather gaiters and was\
flicking a long peeled stick about.\
\
\'93Hullo Jimmy,\'94 he said. \'93Welcome to our city.\'94\
\
\'93Say James,\'94 cried Maisie, \'93Jimmy doesn\'92t know what jackstones are.\'94\
\
Aunt Emily appeared through the blue velvet curtains. She wore a\
highnecked green silk blouse with lace on it. Her white hair rose in a\
smooth curve from her forehead. \'93It\'92s time you children were washing\
up,\'94 she said, \'93dinner\'92s in five minutes.... James take your cousin\
back to your room and hurry up and take off those ridingclothes.\'94\
\
Everybody was already seated when Jimmy followed his cousin into the\
diningroom. Knives and forks tinkled discreetly in the light of six\
candles in red and silver shades. At the end of the table sat Aunt\
Emily, next to her a rednecked man with no back to his head, and at the\
other end Uncle Jeff with a pearl pin in his checked necktie filled\
a broad armchair. The colored maid hovered about the fringe of light\
passing toasted crackers. Jimmy ate his soup stiffly, afraid of making\
a noise. Uncle Jeff was talking in a booming voice between spoonfuls of\
soup.\
\
\'93No I tell you, Wilkinson, New York is no longer what it used to be\
when Emily and I first moved up here about the time the Ark landed....\
City\'92s overrun with kikes and low Irish, that\'92s what\'92s the matter with\
it.... In ten years a Christian wont be able to make a living.... I\
tell you the Catholics and the Jews are going to run us out of our own\
country, that\'92s what they are going to do.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s the New Jerusalem,\'94 put in Aunt Emily laughing.\
\
\'93It\'92s no laughing matter; when a man\'92s worked hard all his life to\
build up a business and that sort of thing he dont want to be run out\
by a lot of damn foreigners, does he Wilkinson?\'94\
\
\'93Jeff you are getting all excited. You know it gives you\
indigestion....\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll keep cool, mother.\'94\
\
\'93The trouble with the people of this country is this, Mr. Merivale\'94 ...\
Mr. Wilkinson frowned ponderously. \'93The people of this country are too\
tolerant. There\'92s no other country in the world where they\'92d allow\
it.... After all we built up this country and then we allow a lot of\
foreigners, the scum of Europe, the offscourings of Polish ghettos to\
come and run it for us.\'94\
\
\'93The fact of the matter is that an honest man wont soil his hands with\
politics, and he\'92s given no inducement to take public office.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s true, a live man, nowadays, wants more money, needs more money\
than he can make honestly in public life.... Naturally the best men\
turn to other channels.\'94\
\
\'93And add to that the ignorance of these dirty kikes and shanty Irish\
that we make voters before they can even talk English ...\'94 began Uncle\
Jeff.\
\
The maid set a highpiled dish of fried chicken edged by corn fritters\
before Aunt Emily. Talk lapsed while everyone was helped. \'93Oh I forgot\
to tell you Jeff,\'94 said Aunt Emily, \'93we\'92re to go up to Scarsdale\
Sunday.\'94\
\
\'93Oh mother I hate going out Sundays.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a perfect baby about staying home.\'94\
\
\'93But Sunday\'92s the only day I get at home.\'94\
\
\'93Well it was this way: I was having tea with the Harland girls\
at Maillard\'92s and who should sit down at the next table but Mrs.\
Burkhart ...\'94\
\
\'93Is that Mrs. John B. Burkhart? Isn\'92t he one of the vicepresidents of\
the National City Bank?\'94\
\
\'93John\'92s a fine feller and a coming man downtown.\'94\
\
\'93Well as I was saying dear, Mrs. Burkhart said we just had to come up\
and spend Sunday with them and I just couldn\'92t refuse.\'94\
\
\'93My father,\'94 continued Mr. Wilkinson, \'93used to be old Johannes\
Burkhart\'92s physician. The old man was a cranky old bird, he\'92d made his\
pile in the fur trade way back in Colonel Astor\'92s day. He had the\
gout and used to swear something terrible.... I remember seeing him\
once, a redfaced old man with long white hair and a silk skullcap over\
his baldspot. He had a parrot named Tobias and people going along the\
street never knew whether it was Tobias or Judge Burkhart cussing.\'94\
\
\'93Ah well, times have changed,\'94 said Aunt Emily.\
\
Jimmy sat in his chair with pins and needles in his legs. Mother\'92s\
had a stroke and next week I\'92ll go back to school. Friday, Saturday,\
Sunday, Monday.... He and Skinny coming back from playing with the\
hoptoads down by the pond, in their blue suits because it was Sunday\
afternoon. Smokebushes were in bloom behind the barn. A lot of fellows\
teasing little Harris, calling him Iky because he was supposed to be\
a Jew. His voice rose in a singsong whine; \'93Cut it fellers, cant you\
fellers. I\'92ve got my best suit on fellers.\'94\
\
\'93Oy Oy Meester Solomon Levy with his best Yiddisher garments all marked\
down,\'94 piped jeering voices. \'93Did you buy it in a five and ten Iky?\'94\
\
\'93I bet he got it at a firesale.\'94\
\
\'93If he got it at a firesale we ought to turn the hose on him.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s turn the hose on Solomon Levy.\'94\
\
\'93Oh stop it fellers.\'94\
\
\'93Shut up; dont yell so loud.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re juss kiddin, they wont hurt him,\'94 whispered Skinny.\
\
Iky was carried kicking and bawling down towards the pond, his white\
tearwet face upside down. \'93He\'92s not a Jew at all,\'94 said Skinny. \'93But\
I\'92ll tell you who is a Jew, that big bully Fat Swanson.\'94\
\
\'93Howjer know?\'94\
\
\'93His roommate told me.\'94\
\
\'93Gee whiz they\'92re going to do it.\'94\
\
They ran in all directions. Little Harris with his hair full of mud was\
crawling up the bank, water running out of his coatsleeves.\
\
There was hot chocolate sauce with the icecream. \'93An Irishman and a\
Scotchman were walking down the street and the Irishman said to the\
Scotchman; Sandy let\'92s have a drink....\'94 A prolonged ringing at the\
front door bell was making them inattentive to Uncle Jeff\'92s story. The\
colored maid flurried back into the diningroom and began whispering in\
Aunt Emily\'92s ear. \'93... And the Scotchman said, Mike ... Why what\'92s the\
matter?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s Mr. Joe sir.\'94\
\
\'93The hell it is.\'94\
\
\'93Well maybe he\'92s all right,\'94 said Aunt Emily hastily.\
\
\'93A bit whipsey, ma\'92am.\'94\
\
\'93Sarah why the dickens did you let him in?\'94\
\
\'93I didnt let him, he juss came.\'94\
\
Uncle Jeff pushed his plate away and slapped down his napkin. \'93Oh hell\
... I\'92ll go talk to him.\'94\
\
\'93Try and make him go ...\'94 Aunt Emily had begun; she stopped with her\
mouth partly open. A head was stuck through the curtains that hung in\
the wide doorway to the livingroom. It had a birdlike face, with a\
thin drooping nose, topped by a mass of straight black hair like an\
Indian\'92s. One of the redrimmed eyes winked quietly.\
\
\'93Hullo everybody!... How\'92s every lil thing? Mind if I butt in?\'94 His\
voice perked hoarsely as a tall skinny body followed the head through\
the curtains. Aunt Emily\'92s mouth arranged itself in a frosty smile.\
\'93Why Emily you must ... er ... excuse me; I felt an evening ... er\
... round the family hearth ... er ... would be ... er ... er ...\
beneficial. You understand, the refining influence of the home.\'94 He\
stood jiggling his head behind Uncle Jeff\'92s chair. \'93Well Jefferson ole\
boy, how\'92s the market?\'94 He brought a hand down on Uncle Jeff\'92s shoulder.\
\
\'93Oh all right. Want to sit down?\'94 he growled.\
\
\'93They tell me ... if you\'92ll take a tip from an old timer ... er ... a\
retired broker ... broker and broker every day ... ha-ha.... But they\
tell me that Interborough Rapid Transit\'92s worth trying a snifter of....\
Doan look at me crosseyed like that Emily. I\'92m going right away....\
Why howdedo Mr. Wilkinson.... Kids are looking well. Well I\'92ll be if\
that isn\'92t Lily Herf\'92s lil boy.... Jimmy you dont remember your ... er\
... cousin, Joe Harland do you? Nobody remembers Joe Harland.... Except\
you Emily and you wish you could forget him ... ha-ha.... How\'92s your\
mother Jimmy?\'94\
\
\'93A little better thank you,\'94 Jimmy forced the words out through a tight\
throat.\
\
\'93Well when you go home you give her my love ... she\'92ll understand.\
Lily and I have always been good friends even if I am the family\
skeleton.... They dont like me, they wish I\'92d go away.... I\'92ll tell you\
what boy, Lily\'92s the best of the lot. Isn\'92t she Emily, isn\'92t she the\
best of the lot of us?\'94\
\
Aunt Emily cleared her throat. \'93Sure she is, the best looking, the\
cleverest, the realest.... Jimmy your mother\'92s an emperess.... Aways\
been too fine for all this. By gorry I\'92d like to drink her health.\'94\
\
\'93Joe you might moderate your voice a little;\'94 Aunt Emily clicked out\
the words like a typewriter.\
\
\'93Aw you all think I\'92m drunk.... Remember this Jimmy\'94 ... he leaned\
across the table, stroked Jimmy\'92s face with his grainy whisky breath\
... \'93these things aren\'92t always a man\'92s fault ... circumstances ...\
er ... circumstances.\'94 He upset a glass staggering to his feet. \'93If\
Emily insists on looking at me crosseyed I\'92m goin out.... But remember\
give Lily Herf Joe Harland\'92s love even if he has gone to the demnition\
bowbows.\'94 He lurched out through the curtains again.\
\
\'93Jeff I know he\'92ll upset the S\'e8vres vase.... See that he gets out all\
right and get him a cab.\'94 James and Maisie burst into shrill giggles\
from behind their napkins. Uncle Jeff was purple.\
\
\'93I\'92ll be damned to hell if I put him in a cab. He\'92s not my cousin....\
He ought to be locked up. And next time you see him you can tell him\
this from me, Emily: if he ever comes here in that disgusting condition\
again I\'92ll throw him out.\'94\
\
\'93Jefferson dear, it\'92s no use getting angry.... There\'92s no harm done.\
He\'92s gone.\'94\
\
\'93No harm done! Think of our children. Suppose there\'92d been a stranger\
here instead of Wilkinson. What would he have thought of our home?\'94\
\
\'93Dont worry about that,\'94 croaked Mr. Wilkinson, \'93accidents will happen\
in the best regulated families.\'94\
\
\'93Poor Joe\'92s such a sweet boy when he\'92s himself,\'94 said Aunt Emily. \'93And\
think that it looked for a while years ago as if Harland held the whole\
Curb Market in the palm of his hand. The papers called him the King\
of the Curb, dont you remember?\'94 \'93That was before the Lottie Smithers\
affair....\'94\
\
\'93Well suppose you children go and play in the other room while we have\
our coffee,\'94 chirped Aunt Emily. \'93Yes, they ought to have gone long\
ago.\'94\
\
\'93Can you play Five Hundred, Jimmy?\'94 asked Maisie.\
\
\'93No I cant.\'94\
\
\'93What do you think of that James, he cant play jacks and he cant play\
Five Hundred.\'94\
\
\'93Well they\'92re both girl\'92s games,\'94 said James loftily. \'93I wouldn\'92t play\
em either xept on account of you.\'94\
\
\'93Oh wouldn\'92t you, Mr. Smarty.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s play animal grabs.\'94\
\
\'93But there aren\'92t enough of us for that. It\'92s no fun without a crowd.\'94\
\
\'93An last time you got the giggles so bad mother made us stop.\'94\
\
\'93Mother made us stop because you kicked little Billy Schmutz in the\
funnybone an made him cry.\'94\
\
\'93Spose we go down an look at the trains,\'94 put in Jimmy.\
\
\'93We\'92re not allowed to go down stairs after dark,\'94 said Maisie severely.\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you what lets play stock exchange.... I\'92ve got a million\
dollars in bonds to sell and Maisie can be the bulls an Jimmy can be\
the bears.\'94\
\
\'93All right, what do we do?\'94\
\
\'93Oh juss run round an yell mostly.... I\'92m selling short.\'94\
\
\'93All right Mr. Broker I\'92ll buy em all at five cents each.\'94\
\
\'93No you cant say that.... You say ninetysix and a half or something\
like that.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll give you five million for them,\'94 cried Maisie waving the blotter\
of the writing desk.\
\
\'93But you fool, they\'92re only worth one million,\'94 shouted Jimmy.\
\
Maisie stood still in her tracks. \'93Jimmy what did you say then?\'94 Jimmy\
felt shame flame up through him; he looked at his stubby shoes. \'93I\
said, you fool.\'94\
\
\'93Haven\'92t you ever been to Sunday school? Don\'92t you know that God says\
in the Bible that if you call anybody Thou fool you\'92ll be in danger of\
hellfire?\'94\
\
Jimmy didn\'92t dare raise his eyes.\
\
\'93Well I\'92m not going to play any more,\'94 said Maisie drawing herself\
up. Jimmy somehow found himself out in the hall. He grabbed his hat\
and ran out the door and down the six flights of white stone stairs\
past the brass buttons and chocolate livery of the elevator boy, out\
through the hall that had pink marble pillars in to Seventysecond\
Street. It was dark and blowy, full of ponderous advancing shadows and\
chasing footsteps. At last he was climbing the familiar crimson stairs\
of the hotel. He hurried past his mother\'92s door. They\'92d ask him why\
he had come home so soon. He burst into his own room, shot the bolt,\
doublelocked the door and stood leaning against it panting.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Well are you married yet?\'94 was the first thing Congo asked when Emile\
opened the door to him. Emile was in his undershirt. The shoebox-shaped\
room was stuffy, lit and heated by a gas crown with a tin cap on it.\
\
\'93Where are you in from this time?\'94\
\
\'93Bizerta and Trondjeb.... I\'92m an able seaman.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a rotten job, going to sea.... I\'92ve saved two hundred dollars.\
I\'92m working at Delmonico\'92s.\'94\
\
They sat down side by side on the unmade bed. Congo produced a package\
of gold tipped Egyptian Deities. \'93Four months\'92 pay\'94; he slapped his\
thigh. \'93Seen May Sweitzer?\'94 Emile shook his head. \'93I\'92ll have to find\
the little son of a gun.... In those goddam Scandinavian ports they\
come out in boats, big fat blond women in bumboats....\'94\
\
They were silent. The gas hummed. Congo let his breath out in a\
whistle. \'93Whee ... C\'92est chic \'e7a, Delmonico ... Why havent you married\
her?\'94\
\
\'93She likes to have me hang around.... I\'92d run the store better than she\
does.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re too easy; got to use rough stuff with women to get anything\
outa them.... Make her jealous.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s got me going.\'94\
\
\'93Want to see some postalcards?\'94 Congo pulled a package, wrapped in\
newspaper out of his pocket. \'93Look these are Naples; everybody there\
wants to come to New York.... That\'92s an Arab dancing girl. Nom d\'92une\
vache they got slippery bellybuttons....\'94\
\
\'93Say, I know what I\'92ll do,\'94 cried Emile suddenly dropping the cards on\
the bed. \'93I\'92ll make her jealous....\'94\
\
\'93Who?\'94\
\
\'93Ernestine ... Madame Rigaud....\'94\
\
\'93Sure walk up an down Eighth Avenue with a girl a couple of times an I\
bet she\'92ll fall like a ton of bricks.\'94\
\
The alarmclock went off on the chair beside the bed. Emile jumped up to\
stop it and began splashing water on his face in the washbasin.\
\
\'93Merde I got to go to work.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll go over to Hell\'92s Kitchen an see if I can find May.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be a fool an spend all your money,\'94 said Emile who stood at the\
cracked mirror with his face screwed up, fastening the buttons in the\
front of a clean boiled shirt.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93It\'92s a sure thing I\'92m tellin yer,\'94 said the man again and again,\
bringing his face close to Ed Thatcher\'92s face and rapping the desk with\
his flat hand.\
\
\'93Maybe it is Viler but I seen so many of em go under, honest I dont see\
how I can risk it.\'94\
\
\'93Man I\'92ve hocked the misses\'92s silver teaset and my diamond ring an the\
baby\'92s mug.... It\'92s a sure sure thing.... I wouldn\'92t let you in on\
it, xept you an me\'92s been pretty good friends an I owe you money an\
everythin.... You\'92ll make twentyfive percent on your money by tomorrow\
noon.... Then if you want to hold you can on a gamble, but if you sell\
three quarters and hold the rest two or three days on a chance you\'92re\
safe as ... as the Rock of Gibraltar.\'94\
\
\'93I know Viler, it certainly sounds good....\'94\
\
\'93Hell man you dont want to be in this damned office all your life, do\
you? Think of your little girl.\'94\
\
\'93I am, that\'92s the trouble.\'94\
\
\'93But Ed, Gibbons and Swandike had started buying already at three cents\
when the market closed this evening.... Klein got wise an\'92ll be right\
there with bells on first thing in the morning. The market\'92ll go crazy\
on it....\'94\
\
\'93Unless the fellers doin the dirty work change their minds. I know\
that stuff through and through, Viler.... Sounds like a topnotch\
proposition.... But I\'92ve examined the books of too many bankrupts.\'94\
\
Viler got to his feet and threw his cigar into the cuspidor. \'93Well\
do as you like, damn it all.... I guess you must like commuting from\
Hackensack an working twelve hours a day....\'94\
\
\'93I believe in workin my way up, that\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the use of a few thousands salted away when you\'92re old and cant\
get any satisfaction? Man I\'92m goin in with both feet.\'94\
\
\'93Go to it Viler.... You tellem,\'94 muttered Thatcher as the other man\
stamped out slamming the office door.\
\
The big office with its series of yellow desks and hooded typewriters\
was dark except for the tent of light in which Thatcher sat at a desk\
piled with ledgers. The three windows at the end were not curtained.\
Through them he could see the steep bulk of buildings scaled with\
lights and a plankshaped bit of inky sky. He was copying memoranda on\
a long sheet of legal cap.\
\
FanTan Import and Export Company (statement of assets and liabilities\
up to and including February 29) ... Branches New York, Shanghai,\
Hongkong and Straights Settlements....\
\
        Balance carried over   $345,789.84\
        Real Estate             500,087.12\
        Profit and Loss         399,765.90\
\
\'93A bunch of goddam crooks,\'94 growled Thatcher out loud. \'93Not an item\
on the whole thing that aint faked. I dont believe they\'92ve got any\
branches in Hongkong or anywhere....\'94\
\
He leaned back in his chair and stared out of the window. The buildings\
were going dark. He could just make out a star in the patch of sky.\
Ought to go out an eat, bum for the digestion to eat irregularly like\
I do. Suppose I\'92d taken a plunge on Viler\'92s red hot tip. Ellen, how\
do you like these American Beauty roses? They have stems eight feet\
long, and I want you to look over the itinerary of the trip abroad I\'92ve\
mapped out to finish your education. Yes it will be a shame to leave\
our fine new apartment looking out over Central Park.... And downtown;\
The Fiduciary Accounting Institute, Edward C. Thatcher, President....\
Blobs of steam were drifting up across the patch of sky, hiding the\
star. Take a plunge, take a plunge ... they\'92re all crooks and gamblers\
anyway ... take a plunge and come up with your hands full, pockets\
full, bankaccount full, vaults full of money. If I only dared take the\
risk. Fool to waste your time fuming about it. Get back to the FanTan\
Import. Steam faintly ruddy with light reflected from the streets\
swarmed swiftly up across the patch of sky, twisting scattering.\
\
Goods on hand in U. S. bonded warehouses ... $325,666.00\
\
Take a plunge and come up with three hundred and twentyfive thousand,\
six hundred and sixtysix dollars. Dollars swarming up like steam,\
twisting scattering against the stars. Millionaire Thatcher leaned\
out of the window of the bright patchouliscented room to look at\
the dark-jutting city steaming with laughter, voices, tinkling and\
lights; behind him orchestras played among the azaleas, private wires\
click click clickclicked dollars from Singapore, Valparaiso, Mukden,\
Hongkong, Chicago. Susie leaned over him in a dress made of orchids,\
breathed in his ear.\
\
Ed Thatcher got to his feet with clenched fists sniveling; You poor\
fool whats the use now she\'92s gone. I\'92d better go eat or Ellen\'92ll scold\
me.\
\
\
\
\
V. Steamroller\
\
          _Dusk gently smooths crispangled streets. Dark presses\
          tight the steaming asphalt city, crushes the fretwork of\
          windows and lettered signs and chimneys and watertanks and\
          ventilators and fireescapes and moldings and patterns and\
          corrugations and eyes and hands and neckties into blue\
          chunks, into black enormous blocks. Under the rolling\
          heavier heavier pressure windows blurt light. Night crushes\
          bright milk out of arclights, squeezes the sullen blocks\
          until they drip red, yellow, green into streets resounding\
          with feet. All the asphalt oozes light. Light spurts from\
          lettering on roofs, mills dizzily among wheels, stains\
          rolling tons of sky._\
\
\
A steamroller was clattering back and forth over the freshly tarred\
metaling of the road at the cemetery gate. A smell of scorched grease\
and steam and hot paint came from it. Jimmy Herf picked his way along\
the edge of the road; the stones were sharp against his feet through\
the worn soles of his shoes. He brushed past swarthy-necked workmen\
and walked on over the new road with a whiff of garlic and sweat\
from them in his nostrils. After a hundred yards he stopped over the\
gray suburban road, laced tight on both sides with telegraph poles\
and wires, over the gray paperbox houses and the gray jagged lots of\
monumentmakers, the sky was the color of a robin\'92s egg. Little worms of\
May were writhing in his blood. He yanked off his black necktie and put\
it in his pocket. A tune was grinding crazily through his head:\
\
    I\'92m so tired of vi-olets\
    Take them all away.\
\
There is one glory of the sun and another glory of the moon and another\
glory of the stars: for one star differeth from another star in glory.\
So also is the resurrection of the dead.... He walked on fast splashing\
through puddles full of sky, trying to shake the droning welloiled\
words out of his ears, to get the feeling of black cr\'eape off his\
fingers, to forget the smell of lilies.\
\
    I\'92m so tired of vi-olets\
    Take them all away.\
\
He walked faster. The road climbed a hill. There was a bright runnel of\
water in the ditch, flowing through patches of grass and dandelions.\
There were fewer houses; on the sides of barns peeling letters spelled\
out LYDIA PINKHAM\'92S VEGETABLE COMPOUND, BUDWEISER, RED HEN, BARKING\
DOG.... And muddy had had a stroke and now she was buried. He couldn\'92t\
think how she used to look; she was dead that was all. From a fencepost\
came the moist whistling of a songsparrow. The minute rusty bird flew\
ahead, perched on a telegraph wire and sang, and flew ahead to the\
rim of an abandoned boiler and sang, and flew ahead and sang. The sky\
was getting a darker blue, filling with flaked motherofpearl clouds.\
For a last moment he felt the rustle of silk beside him, felt a hand\
in a trailing lacefrilled sleeve close gently over his hand. Lying in\
his crib with his feet pulled up cold under the menace of the shaggy\
crouching shadows; and the shadows scuttled melting into corners when\
she leaned over him with curls round her forehead, in silkpuffed\
sleeves, with a tiny black patch at the corner of the mouth that kissed\
his mouth. He walked faster. The blood flowed full and hot in his\
veins. The flaked clouds were melting into rosecolored foam. He could\
hear his steps on the worn macadam. At a crossroad the sun glinted\
on the sticky pointed buds of a beechsapling. Opposite a sign read\
YONKERS. In the middle of the road teetered a dented tomatocan. Kicking\
it hard in front of him he walked on. One glory of the sun and another\
glory of the moon and another glory of the stars.... He walked on.\
\
\'93Hullo Emile!\'94 Emile nodded without turning his head. The girl ran\
after him and grabbed his coatsleeve. \'93That\'92s the way you treat\
your old friends is it? Now that you\'92re keepin company with that\
delicatessen queen ...\'94\
\
Emile yanked his hand away. \'93I am in a \'92urree zat\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92d ye like it if I went an told her how you an me framed it up to\
stand in front of the window on Eighth Avenue huggin an kissin juss to\
make her fall for yez.\'94\
\
\'93Zat was Congo\'92s idea.\'94\
\
\'93Well didn\'92t it woik?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93Well aint there sumpen due me?\'94\
\
\'93May you\'92re a veree nice leetle girl. Next week my night off is\
Wednesday.... I\'92ll come by an take you to a show.... \'92Ow\'92s \'92ustlin?\'94\
\
\'93Worse\'92n hell.... I\'92m tryin out for a dancin job up at the Campus....\
That\'92s where you meet guys wid jack.... No more of dese sailor boys and\
shorefront stiffs.... I\'92m gettin respectable.\'94\
\
\'93May \'92ave you \'92eard from Congo?\'94\
\
\'93Got a postalcard from some goddam place I couldn\'92t read the name\
of.... Aint it funny when you write for money an all ye git \'92s a postal\
ca-ard.... That\'92s the kid gits me for the askin any night.... An he\'92s\
the only one, savvy, Frogslegs?\'94\
\
\'93Goodby May.\'94 He suddenly pushed the straw bonnet trimmed with\
forgetmenots back on her head and kissed her.\
\
\'93Hey quit dat Frogslegs ... Eighth Avenue aint no place to kiss a\
girl,\'94 she whined pushing a yellow curl back under her hat. \'93I could\
git you run in an I\'92ve half a mind to.\'94\
\
Emile walked off.\
\
A fire engine, a hosewagon, and a hookandladder passed him, shattering\
the street with clattering roar. Three blocks down smoke and an\
occasional gasp of flame came from the roof of a house. A crowd was\
jammed up against the policelines. Beyond backs and serried hats Emile\
caught a glimpse of firemen on the roof of the next house and of three\
silently glittering streams of water playing into the upper windows.\
Must be right opposite the delicatessen. He was making his way through\
the jam on the sidewalk when the crowd suddenly opened. Two policemen\
were dragging out a negro whose arms snapped back and forth like broken\
cables. A third cop came behind cracking the negro first on one side of\
the head, then on the other with his billy.\
\
\'93It\'92s a shine \'92at set the fire.\'94\
\
\'93They caught the firebug.\'94\
\
\'93\'92At\'92s \'92e incendiary.\'94\
\
\'93God he\'92s a meanlookin smoke.\'94\
\
The crowd closed in. Emile was standing beside Madame Rigaud in front\
of the door of her store.\
\
\'93Cheri que \'e7a me fait une emotiong.... J\'92ai horriblemong peu du feu.\'94\
\
Emile was standing a little behind her. He let one arm crawl slowly\
round her waist and patted her arm with his other hand, \'93Everyting\
awright. Look no more fire, only smoke.... But you are insured, aint\
you?\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes for fifteen tousand.\'94 He squeezed her hand and then took his\
arms away. \'93Viens ma petite on va rentrer.\'94\
\
Once inside the shop he took both her plump hands. \'93Ernestine when we\
get married?\'94\
\
\'93Next month.\'94\
\
\'93I no wait zat long, imposseeble.... Why not next Wednesday? Then I\
can help you make inventory of stock.... I tink maybe we can sell this\
place and move uptown, make bigger money.\'94\
\
She patted him on the cheek. \'93P\'92tit ambitieux,\'94 she said through her\
hollow inside laugh that made her shoulders and her big bust shake.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
They had to change at Manhattan Transfer. The thumb of Ellen\'92s new kid\
glove had split and she kept rubbing it nervously with her forefinger.\
John wore a belted raincoat and a pinkishgray felt hat. When he turned\
to her and smiled she couldn\'92t help pulling her eyes away and staring\
out at the long rain that shimmered over the tracks.\
\
\'93Here we are Elaine dear. Oh prince\'92s daughter, you see we get the\
train that comes from the Penn station.... It\'92s funny this waiting in\
the wilds of New Jersey this way.\'94 They got into the parlorcar. John\
made a little clucking sound in his mouth at the raindrops that made\
dark dimes on his pale hat. \'93Well we\'92re off, little girl.... Behold\
thou art fair my love, thou art fair, thou hast dove\'92s eyes within thy\
locks.\'94\
\
Ellen\'92s new tailored suit was tight at the elbows. She wanted to feel\
very gay and listen to his purring whisper in her ears, but something\
had set her face in a tight frown; she could only look out at the\
brown marshes and the million black windows of factories and the\
puddly streets of towns and a rusty steamboat in a canal and barns\
and Bull Durham signs and roundfaced Spearmint gnomes all barred and\
crisscrossed with bright flaws of rain. The jeweled stripes on the\
window ran straight down when the train stopped and got more and more\
oblique as it speeded up. The wheels rumbled in her head, saying\
Man-hattan Tran-sfer. Man-hattan Tran-sfer. Anyway it was a long time\
before Atlantic City. By the time we get to Atlantic City ... _Oh it\
rained forty days_ ... I\'92ll be feeling gay.... _And it rained forty\
nights._... I\'92ve got to be feeling gay.\
\
\'93Elaine Thatcher Oglethorpe, that\'92s a very fine name, isn\'92t it,\
darling? Oh stay me with flagons, comfort me with apples for I am sick\
of love....\'94\
\
It was so comfortable in the empty parlorcar in the green velvet\
chair with John leaning towards her reciting nonsense with the brown\
marshlands slipping by behind the rainstriped window and a smell like\
clams seeping into the car. She looked into his face and laughed. A\
blush ran all over his face to the roots of his redblond hair. He put\
his hand in its yellow glove over her hand in its white glove. \'93You\'92re\
my wife now Elaine.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re my husband now John.\'94 And laughing they looked at each other in\
the coziness of the empty parlorcar.\
\
White letters, ATLANTIC CITY, spelled doom over the rainpitted water.\
\
Rain lashed down the glaring boardwalk and crashed in gusts against the\
window like water thrown out of a bucket. Beyond the rain she could\
hear the intermittent rumble of the surf along the beach between the\
illuminated piers. She lay on her back staring at the ceiling. Beside\
her in the big bed John lay asleep breathing quietly like a child with\
a pillow doubled up under his head. She was icy cold. She slid out of\
bed very carefully not to wake him, and stood looking out the window\
down the very long V of lights of the boardwalk. She pushed up the\
window. The rain lashed in her face spitefully stinging her flesh,\
wetting her nightdress. She pushed her forehead against the frame. Oh\
I want to die. I want to die. All the tight coldness of her body was\
clenching in her stomach. Oh I\'92m going to be sick. She went into the\
bathroom and closed the door. When she had vomited she felt better.\
Then she climbed into bed again careful not to touch John. If she\
touched him she would die. She lay on her back with her hands tight\
against her sides and her feet together. The parlorcar rumbled cozily\
in her head; she fell asleep.\
\
Wind rattling the windowframes wakened her. John was far away, the\
other side of the big bed. With the wind and the rain streaming in\
the window it was as if the room and the big bed and everything were\
moving, running forward like an airship over the sea. _Oh it rained\
forty days._... Through a crack in the cold stiffness the little tune\
trickled warm as blood.... _And it rained forty nights._ Gingerly she\
drew a hand over her husband\'92s hair. He screwed his face up in his\
sleep and whined \'93Dont\'94 in a littleboy\'92s voice that made her giggle.\
She lay giggling on the far edge of the bed, giggling desperately as\
she used to with girls at school. And the rain lashed through the\
window and the song grew louder until it was a brass band in her ears:\
\
    Oh it rained forty days\
    And it rained forty nights\
    And it didn\'92t stop till Christmas\
    And the only man that survived the flood\
    Was longlegged Jack of the Isthmus.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Jimmy Herf sits opposite Uncle Jeff. Each has before him on a blue\
plate a chop, a baked potato, a little mound of peas and a sprig of\
parsely.\
\
\'93Well look about you Jimmy,\'94 says Uncle Jeff. Bright topstory light\
brims the walnutpaneled diningroom, glints twistedly on silver knives\
and forks, gold teeth, watch-chains, scarfpins, is swallowed up in the\
darkness of broadcloth and tweed, shines roundly on polished plates and\
bald heads and covers of dishes. \'93Well what do you think of it?\'94 asks\
Uncle Jeff burying his thumbs in the pockets of his fuzzy buff vest.\
\
\'93It\'92s a fine club all right,\'94 says Jimmy.\
\
\'93The wealthiest and the most successful men in the country eat lunch up\
here. Look at the round table in the corner. That\'92s the Gausenheimers\'92\
table. Just to the left.\'94 ... Uncle Jeff leans forward lowering his\
voice, \'93the man with the powerful jaw is J. Wilder Laporte.\'94 Jimmy cuts\
into his muttonchop without answering. \'93Well Jimmy, you probably know\
why I brought you down here ... I want to talk to you. Now that your\
poor mother has ... has been taken, Emily and I are your guardians in\
the eyes of the law and the executors of poor Lily\'92s will.... I want to\
explain to you just how things stand.\'94 Jimmy puts down his knife and\
fork and sits staring at his uncle, clutching the arms of his chair\
with cold hands, watching the jowl move blue and heavy above the ruby\
stickpin in the wide satin cravat. \'93You are sixteen now aren\'92t you\
Jimmy?\'94\
\
\'93Yes sir.\'94\
\
\'93Well it\'92s this way.... When your mother\'92s estate is all settled up\
you\'92ll find yourself in the possession of approximately fiftyfive\
hundred dollars. Luckily you are a bright fellow and will be ready\
for college early. Now, properly husbanded that sum ought to see you\
through Columbia, since you insist on going to Columbia.... I myself,\
and I\'92m sure your Aunt Emily feels the same way about it, would much\
rather see you go to Yale or Princeton.... You are a very lucky\
fellow in my estimation. At your age I was sweeping out an office\
in Fredericksburg and earning fifteen dollars a month. Now what I\
wanted to say was this ... I have not noticed that you felt sufficient\
responsibility about moneymatters ... er ... sufficient enthusiasm\
about earning your living, making good in a man\'92s world. Look around\
you.... Thrift and enthusiasm has made these men what they are. It\'92s\
made me, put me in the position to offer you the comfortable home,\
the cultured surroundings that I do offer you.... I realize that your\
education has been a little peculiar, that poor Lily did not have quite\
the same ideas that we have on many subjects, but the really formative\
period of your life is beginning. Now\'92s the time to take a brace and\
lay the foundations of your future career.... What I advise is that you\
follow James\'92s example and work your way up through the firm.... From\
now on you are both sons of mine.... It will mean hard work but it\'92ll\
eventually offer a very substantial opening. And dont forget this, if a\
man\'92s a success in New York, he\'92s a success!\'94 Jimmy sits watching his\
uncle\'92s broad serious mouth forming words, without tasting the juicy\
mutton of the chop he is eating. \'93Well what are you going to make of\
yourself?\'94 Uncle Jeff leaned towards him across the table with bulging\
gray eyes.\
\
Jimmy chokes on a piece of bread, blushes, at last stammers weakly,\
\'93Whatever you say Uncle Jeff.\'94\
\
\'93Does that mean you\'92ll go to work for a month this summer in my\
office? Get a taste of how it feels to make a living, like a man in a\
man\'92s world, get an idea of how the business is run?\'94 Jimmy nods his\
head. \'93Well I think you\'92ve come to a very sensible decision,\'94 booms\
Uncle Jeff leaning back in his chair so that the light strikes across\
the wave of his steelgray hair. \'93By the way what\'92ll you have for\
dessert?... Years from now Jimmy, when you are a successful man with a\
business of your own we\'92ll remember this talk. It\'92s the beginning of\
your career.\'94\
\
The hatcheck girl smiles from under the disdainful pile of her billowy\
blond hair when she hands Jimmy his hat that looks squashed flat and\
soiled and limp among the big-bellied derbies and the fedoras and the\
majestic panamas hanging on the pegs. His stomach turns a somersault\
with the drop of the elevator. He steps out into the crowded marble\
hall. For a moment not knowing which way to go, he stands back against\
the wall with his hands in his pockets, watching people elbow their\
way through the perpetually revolving doors; softcheeked girls chewing\
gum, hatchetfaced girls with bangs, creamfaced boys his own age, young\
toughs with their hats on one side, sweatyfaced messengers, crisscross\
glances, sauntering hips, red jowls masticating cigars, sallow concave\
faces, flat bodies of young men and women, paunched bodies of elderly\
men, all elbowing, shoving, shuffling, fed in two endless tapes through\
the revolving doors out into Broadway, in off Broadway. Jimmy fed in a\
tape in and out the revolving doors, noon and night and morning, the\
revolving doors grinding out his years like sausage meat. All of a\
sudden his muscles stiffen. Uncle Jeff and his office can go plumb to\
hell. The words are so loud inside him he glances to one side and the\
other to see if anyone heard him say them.\
\
They can all go plumb to hell. He squares his shoulders and shoves\
his way to the revolving doors. His heel comes down on a foot. \'93For\
crissake look where yer steppin.\'94 He\'92s out in the street. A swirling\
wind down Broadway blows grit in his mouth and eyes. He walks down\
towards the Battery with the wind in his back. In Trinity Churchyard\
stenographers and officeboys are eating sandwiches among the tombs.\
Outlandish people cluster outside steamship lines; towhaired\
Norwegians, broadfaced Swedes, Polacks, swarthy stumps of men that\
smell of garlic from the Mediterranean, mountainous Slavs, three\
Chinamen, a bunch of Lascars. On the little triangle in front of\
the Customhouse, Jim Herf turns and stares long up the deep gash of\
Broadway, facing the wind squarely. Uncle Jeff and his office can go\
plumb to hell.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Bud sat on the edge of his cot and stretched out his arms and yawned.\
From all round through a smell of sweat and sour breath and wet clothes\
came snores, the sound of men stirring in their sleep, creaking of\
bedsprings. Far away through the murk burned a single electric light.\
Bud closed his eyes and let his head fall over on his shoulder. O God I\
want to go to sleep. Sweet Jesus I want to go to sleep. He pressed his\
knees together against his clasped hands to keep them from trembling.\
Our father which art in Heaven I want to go to sleep.\
\
\'93Wassa matter pardner cant ye sleep?\'94 came a quiet whisper from the\
next cot.\
\
\'93Hell, no.\'94 \'93Me neither.\'94\
\
Bud looked at the big head of curly hair held up on an elbow turned\
towards him.\
\
\'93This is a hell of a lousy stinking flop,\'94 went on the voice evenly.\
\'93I\'92ll tell the world ... Forty cents too! They can take their Hotel\
Plaza an ...\'94\
\
\'93Been long in the city?\'94\
\
\'93Ten years come August.\'94\
\
\'93Great snakes!\'94\
\
A voice rasped down the line of cots, \'93Cut de comedy yous guys, what do\
you tink dis is, a Jewish picnic?\'94\
\
Bud lowered his voice: \'93Funny, it\'92s years I been thinkin an wantin to\
come to the city.... I was born an raised on a farm upstate.\'94\
\
\'93Why dont ye go back?\'94\
\
\'93I cant go back.\'94 Bud was cold; he wanted to stop trembling. He pulled\
the blanket up to his chin and rolled over facing the man who was\
talking. \'93Every spring I says to myself I\'92ll hit the road again, go out\
an plant myself among the weeds an the grass an the cows comin home\
milkin time, but I dont; I juss kinder hangs on.\'94\
\
\'93What d\'92ye do all this time in the city?\'94\
\
\'93I dunno.... I used to set in Union Square most of the time, then I set\
in Madison Square. I been up in Hoboken an Joisey and Flatbush an now\
I\'92m a Bowery bum.\'94\
\
\'93God I swear I\'92m goin to git outa here tomorrow. I git sceered here.\
Too many bulls an detectives in this town.\'94\
\
\'93You could make a livin in handouts.... But take it from me kid you go\
back to the farm an the ole folks while the goin\'92s good.\'94\
\
Bud jumped out of bed and yanked roughly at the man\'92s shoulder. \'93Come\
over here to the light, I want to show ye sumpen.\'94 Bud\'92s own voice\
crinkled queerly in his ears. He strode along the snoring lane of cots.\
The bum, a shambling man with curly weatherbleached hair and beard and\
eyes as if hammered into his head, climbed fully dressed out from the\
blankets and followed him. Under the light Bud unbuttoned the front\
of his unionsuit and pulled it off his knottymuscled gaunt arms and\
shoulders. \'93Look at my back.\'94\
\
\'93Christ Jesus,\'94 whispered the man running a grimy hand with long yellow\
nails over the mass of white and red deep-gouged scars. \'93I aint never\
seen nothin like it.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s what the ole man done to me. For twelve years he licked me when\
he had a mind to. Used to strip me and take a piece of light chain to\
my back. They said he was my dad but I know he aint. I run away when\
I was thirteen. That was when he ketched me an began to lick me. I\'92m\
twentyfive now.\'94\
\
They went back without speaking to their cots and lay down.\
\
Bud lay staring at the ceiling with the blanket up to his eyes. When he\
looked down towards the door at the end of the room, he saw standing\
there a man in a derby hat with a cigar in his mouth. He crushed his\
lower lip between his teeth to keep from crying out. When he looked\
again the man was gone. \'93Say are you awake yet?\'94 he whispered.\
\
The bum grunted. \'93I was goin to tell yer. I mashed his head in with the\
grubbinhoe, mashed it in like when you kick a rotten punkin. I told him\
to lay offn me an he wouldn\'92t.... He was a hard godfearin man an he\
wanted you to be sceered of him. We was grubbin the sumach outa the old\
pasture to plant pertoters there.... I let him lay till night with his\
head mashed in like a rotten punkin. A bit of scrub along the fence hid\
him from the road. Then I buried him an went up to the house an made me\
a pot of coffee. He hadn\'92t never let me drink no coffee. Before light I\
got up an walked down the road. I was tellin myself in a big city it\'92d\
be like lookin for a needle in a haystack to find yer. I knowed where\
the ole man kep his money; he had a roll as big as your head but I was\
sceered to take more\'92en ten dollars.... You awake yet?\'94\
\
The bum grunted. \'93When I was a kid I kep company with ole man Sackett\'92s\
girl. Her and me used to keep company in the ole icehouse down in\
Sackett\'92s woods an we used to talk about how we\'92d come to New York\
City an git rich and now I\'92m here I cant git work an I cant git over\
bein sceered. There\'92s detectives follow me all round, men in derbyhats\
with badges under their coats. Last night I wanted to go with a hooker\
an she saw it in my eyes an throwed me out.... She could see it in my\
eyes.\'94 He was sitting on the edge of the cot, leaning over, talking\
into the other man\'92s face in a hissing whisper. The bum suddenly\
grabbed him by the wrists.\
\
\'93Look here kid, you\'92re goin blooy if you keep up like this.... Got any\
mazuma?\'94 Bud nodded. \'93You better give it to me to keep. I\'92m an old\
timer an I\'92ll git yez outa this. You put yer clothes on a take a walk\
round the block to a hash joint an eat up strong. How much you got?\'94\
\
\'93Change from a dollar.\'94\
\
\'93You give me a quarter an eat all the stuff you kin git offn the rest.\'94\
Bud pulled on his trousers and handed the man a quarter. \'93Then you\
come back here an you\'92ll sleep good an tomorrer me\'92n you\'92ll go upstate\
an git that roll of bills. Did ye say it was as big as yer head? Then\
we\'92ll beat it where they cant ketch us. We\'92ll split fifty fifty. Are\
you on?\'94\
\
Bud shook his hand with a wooden jerk, then with the laces flickering\
round his shoes he shuffled to the door and down the spitmarked stairs.\
\
The rain had stopped, a cool wind that smelled of woods and grass was\
ruffling the puddles in the cleanwashed streets. In the lunchroom in\
Chatham Square three men sat asleep with their hats over their eyes.\
The man behind the counter was reading a pink sportingsheet. Bud waited\
long for his order. He felt cool, unthinking, happy. When it came he\
ate the browned corned beef hash, deliberately enjoying every mouthful,\
mashing the crisp bits of potato against his teeth with his tongue,\
between sips of heavily sugared coffee. After polishing the plate with\
a crust of bread he took a toothpick and went out.\
\
Picking his teeth he walked through the grimydark entrance to Brooklyn\
Bridge. A man in a derby hat was smoking a cigar in the middle of the\
broad tunnel. Bud brushed past him walking with a tough swagger. I\
dont care about him; let him follow me. The arching footwalk was empty\
except for a single policeman who stood yawning, looking up at the sky.\
It was like walking among the stars. Below in either direction streets\
tapered into dotted lines of lights between square blackwindowed\
buildings. The river glimmered underneath like the Milky Way above.\
Silently smoothly the bunch of lights of a tug slipped through the\
moist darkness. A car whirred across the bridge making the girders\
rattle and the spiderwork of cables thrum like a shaken banjo.\
\
When he got to the tangle of girders of the elevated railroads of the\
Brooklyn side, he turned back along the southern driveway. Dont matter\
where I go, cant go nowhere now. An edge of the blue night had started\
to glow behind him the way iron starts to glow in a forge. Beyond\
black chimneys and lines of roofs faint rosy contours of the downtown\
buildings were brightening. All the darkness was growing pearly,\
warming. They\'92re all of em detectives chasin me, all of em, men in\
derbies, bums on the Bowery, old women in kitchens, barkeeps, streetcar\
conductors, bulls, hookers, sailors, longshoremen, stiffs in employment\
agencies.... He thought I\'92d tell him where the ole man\'92s roll was, the\
lousy bum.... One on him. One on all them goddam detectives. The river\
was smooth, sleek as a bluesteel gun-barrel. Dont matter where I go;\
cant go nowhere now. The shadows between the wharves and the buildings\
were powdery like washingblue. Masts fringed the river; smoke, purple\
chocolatecolor fleshpink climbed into light. Cant go nowhere now.\
\
In a swallowtail suit with a gold watchchain and a red seal ring riding\
to his wedding beside Maria Sackett, riding in a carriage to City Hall\
with four white horses to be made an alderman by the mayor; and the\
light grows behind them brighter brighter, riding in satins and silks\
to his wedding, riding in pinkplush in a white carriage with Maria\
Sackett by his side through rows of men waving cigars, bowing, doffing\
brown derbies, Alderman Bud riding in a carriage full of diamonds with\
his milliondollar bride.... Bud is sitting on the rail of the bridge.\
The sun has risen behind Brooklyn. The windows of Manhattan have caught\
fire. He jerks himself forward, slips, dangles by a hand with the sun\
in his eyes. The yell strangles in his throat as he drops.\
\
Captain McAvoy of the tugboat _Prudence_ stood in the pilothouse with\
one hand on the wheel. In the other he held a piece of biscuit he\
had just dipped into a cup of coffee that stood on the shelf beside\
the binnacle. He was a wellset man with bushy eyebrows and a bushy\
black mustache waxed at the tips. He was about to put the piece of\
coffeesoaked biscuit into his mouth when something black dropped and\
hit the water with a thudding splash a few yards off the bow. At the\
same moment a man leaning out of the engineroom door shouted, \'93A guy\
juss jumped offn de bridge.\'94\
\
\'93God damn it to hell,\'94 said Captain McAvoy dropping his piece of\
biscuit and spinning the wheel. The strong ebbtide whisked the boat\
round like a straw. Three bells jangled in the engineroom. A negro ran\
forward to the bow with a boathook.\
\
\'93Give a hand there Red,\'94 shouted Captain McAvoy.\
\
After a tussle they landed a long black limp thing on the deck. One\
bell. Two bells, Captain McAvoy frowning and haggard spun the tug\'92s\
nose into the current again.\
\
\'93Any life in him Red?\'94 he asked hoarsely. The negro\'92s face was green,\
his teeth were chattering.\
\
\'93Naw sir,\'94 said the redhaired man slowly. \'93His neck\'92s broke clear off.\'94\
\
Captain McAvoy sucked a good half of his mustache into his mouth. \'93God\
damn it to hell,\'94 he groaned. \'93A pretty thing to happen on a man\'92s\
wedding day.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                            _Second Section_\
\
\
\
\
I. Great Lady on a White Horse\
\
          _Morning clatters with the first L train down Allen Street.\
          Daylight rattles through the windows, shaking the old brick\
          houses, splatters the girders of the L structure with\
          bright confetti._\
\
          _The cats are leaving the garbage cans, the chinches are\
          going back into the walls, leaving sweaty limbs, leaving\
          the grimetender necks of little children asleep. Men and\
          women stir under blankets and bedquilts on mattresses in\
          the corners of rooms, clots of kids begin to untangle to\
          scream and kick._\
\
          _At the corner of Riverton the old man with the hempen\
          beard who sleeps where nobody knows is putting out his\
          picklestand. Tubs of gherkins, pimentos, melonrind,\
          piccalilli give out twining vines and cold tendrils of\
          dank pepperyfragrance that grow like a marshgarden out of\
          the musky bedsmells and the rancid clangor of the cobbled\
          awakening street._\
\
          _The old man with the hempen beard who sleeps where nobody\
          knows sits in the midst of it like Jonah under his gourd._\
\
\
Jimmy Herf walked up four creaky flights and knocked at a white door\
fingermarked above the knob where the name _Sunderland_ appeared in old\
English characters on a card neatly held in place by brass thumbtacks.\
He waited a long while beside a milkbottle, two creambottles, and a\
copy of the Sunday _Times_. There was a rustle behind the door and the\
creak of a step, then no more sound. He pushed a white button in the\
doorjamb.\
\
\'93An he said, Margie I\'92ve got a crush on you so bad, an she said, Come\
in outa the rain, you\'92re all wet....\'94 Voices coming down the stairs, a\
man\'92s feet in button shoes, a girl\'92s feet in sandals, pink silk legs;\
the girl in a fluffy dress and a Spring Maid hat; the young man had\
white edging on his vest and a green, blue, and purple striped necktie.\
\
\'93But you\'92re not that kind of a girl.\'94\
\
\'93How do you know what kind of a girl I am?\'94\
\
The voices trailed out down the stairs.\
\
Jimmy Herf gave the bell another jab.\
\
\'93Who is it?\'94 came a lisping female voice through a crack in the door.\
\
\'93I want to see Miss Prynne please.\'94\
\
Glimpse of a blue kimono held up to the chin of a fluffy face. \'93Oh I\
don\'92t know if she\'92s up yet.\'94\
\
\'93She said she would be.\'94\
\
\'93Look will you please wait a second to let me make my getaway,\'94 she\
tittered behind the door. \'93And then come in. Excuse us but Mrs.\
Sunderland thought you were the rent collector. They sometimes come on\
Sunday just to fool you.\'94 A smile coyly bridged the crack in the door.\
\
\'93Shall I bring in the milk?\'94\
\
\'93Oh do and sit down in the hall and I\'92ll call Ruth.\'94 The hall was very\
dark; smelled of sleep and toothpaste and massagecream; across one\
corner a cot still bore the imprint of a body on its rumpled sheets.\
Straw hats, silk eveningwraps, and a couple of men\'92s dress overcoats\
hung in a jostling tangle from the staghorns of the hatrack. Jimmy\
picked a corsetcover off a rockingchair and sat down. Women\'92s voices, a\
subdued rustling of people dressing, Sunday newspaper noises seeped out\
through the partitions of the different rooms.\
\
The bathroom door opened; a stream of sunlight reflected out of\
a pierglass cut the murky hall in half, out of it came a head of\
hair like copper wire, bluedark eyes in a brittle-white eggshaped\
face. Then the hair was brown down the hall above a slim back in a\
tangerine-colored slip, nonchalant pink heels standing up out of the\
bathslippers at every step.\
\
\'93Ou-ou, Jimmee...\'94 Ruth was yodling at him from behind her door. \'93But\
you mustn\'92t look at me or at my room.\'94 A head in curlpapers stuck out\
like a turtle\'92s.\
\
\'93Hullo Ruth.\'94\
\
\'93You can come in if you promise not to look.... I\'92m a sight and my\
room\'92s a pigeon.... I\'92ve just got to do my hair. Then I\'92ll be ready.\'94\
The little gray room was stuffed with clothes and photographs of stage\
people. Jimmy stood with his back to the door, some sort of silky stuff\
that dangled from the hook tickling his ears.\
\
\'93Well how\'92s the cub reporter?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m on Hell\'92s Kitchen.... It\'92s swell. Got a job yet Ruth?\'94\
\
\'93Um-um.... A couple of things may materialize during the week. But they\
wont. Oh Jimmy I\'92m getting desperate.\'94 She shook her hair loose of\
the crimpers and combed out the new mousybrown waves. She had a pale\
startled face with a big mouth and blue underlids. \'93This morning I knew\
I ought to be up and ready, but I just couldn\'92t. It\'92s so discouraging\
to get up when you haven\'92t got a job.... Sometimes I think I\'92ll go to\
bed and just stay there till the end of the world.\'94\
\
\'93Poor old Ruth.\'94\
\
She threw a powderpuff at him that covered his necktie and the lapels\
of his blue serge suit with powder. \'93Dont you poor old me you little\
rat.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a nice thing to do after all the trouble I took to make myself\
look respectable.... Darn your hide Ruth. And the smell of the carbona\
not off me yet.\'94\
\
Ruth threw back her head with a shrieking laugh. \'93Oh you\'92re so comical\
Jimmy. Try the whisk-broom.\'94\
\
Blushing he blew down his chin at his tie. \'93Who\'92s the funnylooking girl\
opened the halldoor?\'94\
\
\'93Shush you can hear everything through the partition.... That\'92s\
Cassie,\'94 she whispered giggling. \'93Cassah-ndrah Wilkins ... used to be\
with the Morgan Dancers. But we oughtnt to laugh at her, she\'92s very\
nice. I\'92m very fond of her.\'94 She let out a whoop of laughter. \'93You nut\
Jimmy.\'94 She got to her feet and punched him in the muscle of the arm.\
\'93You always make me act like I was crazy.\'94\
\
\'93God did that.... No but look, I\'92m awfully hungry. I walked up.\'94\
\
\'93What time is it?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s after one.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Jimmy I dont know what to do about time.... Like this hat?... Oh I\
forgot to tell you. I went to see Al Harrison yesterday. It was simply\
dreadful.... If I hadnt got to the phone in time and threatened to call\
the police....\'94\
\
\'93Look at that funny woman opposite. She\'92s got a face exactly like a\
llama.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s on account of her I have to keep my shades drawn all the time ...\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93Oh you\'92re much too young to know. You\'92d be shocked Jimmy.\'94 Ruth was\
leaning close to the mirror running a stick of rouge between her lips.\
\
\'93So many things shock me, I dont see that it matters much.... But come\
along let\'92s get out of here. The sun\'92s shining outside and people are\
coming out of church and going home to overeat and read at their Sunday\
papers among the rubberplants ...\'94\
\
\'93Oh Jimmy you\'92re a shriek ... Just one minute. Look out you\'92re hooked\
onto my best shimmy.\'94\
\
A girl with short black hair in a yellow jumper was folding the sheets\
off the cot in the hall. For a second under the ambercolored powder\
and the rouge Jimmy did not recognize the face he had seen through the\
crack in the door.\
\
\'93Hello Cassie, this is ... Beg pardon, Miss Wilkins this is Mr. Herf.\
You tell him about the lady across the airshaft, you know Sappo the\
Monk.\'94\
\
Cassandra Wilkins lisped and pouted. \'93Isn\'92t she dweadful Mr. Herf....\
She says the dweadfullest things.\'94\
\
\'93She merely does it to annoy.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Mr. Herf I\'92m so pleased to meet you at last, Ruth does nothing but\
talk about you.... Oh I\'92m afwaid I was indiscweet to say that.... I\'92m\
dweadfully indiscweet.\'94\
\
The door across the hall opened and Jimmy found himself looking in the\
white face of a crookednosed man whose red hair rode in two unequal\
mounds on either side of a straight part. He wore a green satin\
bathrobe and red morocco slippers.\
\
\'93What heow Cassahndrah?\'94 he said in a careful Oxford drawl. \'93What\
prophecies today?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing except a wire from Mrs. Fitzsimmons Green. She wants me to go\
to see her at Scarsdale tomorrow to talk about the Gweenery Theater....\
Excuse me this is Mr. Herf, Mr. Oglethorpe.\'94 The redhaired man raised\
one eyebrow and lowered the other and put a limp hand in Jimmy\'92s.\
\
\'93Herf, Herf.... Let me see, it\'92s not a Georgiah Herf? In Atlahnta\
there\'92s an old family of Herfs....\'94\
\
\'93No I dont think so.\'94\
\
\'93Too bad. Once upon a time Josiah Herf and I were boon companions.\
Today he is the president of the First National Bank and leading\
citizen of Scranton Pennsylvahnia and I ... a mere mountebank, a thing\
of rags and patches.\'94 When he shrugged his shoulders the bathrobe fell\
away exposing a flat smooth hairless chest.\
\
\'93You see Mr. Oglethorpe and I are going to do the Song of Songs. He\
weads it and I interpwet it in dancing. You must come up and see us\
wehearse sometime.\'94\
\
\'93Thy navel is like a round goblet which wanteth not liquor, thy belly\
is like a heap of wheat set about with lilies ...\'94\
\
\'93Oh dont begin now.\'94 She tittered and pressed her legs together.\
\
\'93Jojo close that door,\'94 came a quiet deep girl\'92s voice from inside the\
room.\
\
\'93Oh poo-er deah Elaine, she wants to sleep.... So glahd to have met\
you, Mr. Herf.\'94\
\
\'93Jojo!\'94\
\
\'93Yes my deah....\'94\
\
Through the leaden drowse that cramped him the girl\'92s voice set Jimmy\
tingling. He stood beside Cassie constrainedly without speaking in the\
dingydark hall. A smell of coffee and singeing toast seeped in from\
somewhere. Ruth came up behind them.\
\
\'93All right Jimmy I\'92m ready.... I wonder if I\'92ve forgotten anything.\'94\
\
\'93I dont care whether you have or not, I\'92m starving.\'94 Jimmy took hold\
of her shoulders and pushed her gently towards the door. \'93It\'92s two\
o\'92clock.\'94\
\
\'93Well goodby Cassie dear, I\'92ll call you up at about six.\'94\
\
\'93All wight Wuthy ... So pleased to have met you Mr. Herf.\'94 The door\
closed on Cassie\'92s tittering lisp.\
\
\'93Wow, Ruth that place gives me the infernal jimjams.\'94\
\
\'93Now Jimmy dont get peevish because you need food.\'94\
\
\'93But tell me Ruth, what the hell is Mr. Oglethorpe? He beats anything I\
ever saw.\'94\
\
\'93Oh did the Ogle come out of his lair?\'94 Ruth let out a whoop of\
laughter. They came out into grimy sunlight. \'93Did he tell you he was of\
the main brawnch, dontcher know, of the Oglethorpes of Georgiah?\'94\
\
\'93Is that lovely girl with copper hair his wife?\'94\
\
\'93Elaine Oglethorpe has reddish hair. She\'92s not so darn lovely\
either.... She\'92s just a kid and she\'92s upstage as the deuce already. All\
because she made a kind of a hit in Peach Blossoms. You know one of\
these tiny exquisite bits everybody makes such a fuss over. She can act\
all right.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a shame she\'92s got that for a husband.\'94\
\
\'93Ogle\'92s done everything in the world for her. If it hadnt been for him\
she\'92d still be in the chorus ...\'94\
\
\'93Beauty and the beast.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d better look out if he sets his lamps on you Jimmy.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93Strange fish, Jimmy, strange fish.\'94\
\
An Elevated train shattered the barred sunlight overhead. He could see\
Ruth\'92s mouth forming words.\
\
\'93Look,\'94 he shouted above the diminishing clatter. \'93Let\'92s go have brunch\
at the Campus and then go for a walk on the Palisades.\'94\
\
\'93You nut Jimmy what\'92s brunch?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll eat breakfast and I\'92ll eat lunch.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92ll be a scream.\'94 Whooping with laughter she put her arm in his. Her\
silvernet bag knocked against his elbow as they walked.\
\
\'93And what about Cassie, the mysterious Cassandra?\'94\
\
\'93You mustn\'92t laugh at her, she\'92s a peach.... If only she wouldn\'92t keep\
that horrid little white poodle. She keeps it in her room and it never\
gets any exercise and it smells something terrible. She has that little\
room next to mine.... Then she\'92s got a steady ...\'94 Ruth giggled. \'93He\'92s\
worse than the poodle. They\'92re engaged and he borrows all her money\
away from her. For Heaven\'92s sake dont tell anybody.\'94\
\
\'93I dont know anybody to tell.\'94\
\
\'93Then there\'92s Mrs. Sunderland ...\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes I got a glimpse of her going into the bathroom--an old lady in\
a wadded dressing gown with a pink boudoir cap on.\'94\
\
\'93Jimmy you shock me.... She keeps losing her false teeth,\'94 began Ruth;\
an L train drowned out the rest. The restaurant door closing behind\
them choked off the roar of wheels on rails.\
\
An orchestra was playing _When It\'92s Appleblossom Time in Normandee_.\
The place was full of smokewrithing slants of sunlight, paper festoons,\
signs announcing LOBSTERS ARRIVE DAILY, EAT CLAMS NOW, TRY OUR\
DELICIOUS FRENCH STYLE STEAMED MUSSLES (Recommended by the Department\
of Agriculture). They sat down under a redlettered placard BEEFSTEAK\
PARTIES UPSTAIRS and Ruth made a pass at him with a breadstick. \'93Jimmy\
do you think it\'92d be immoral to eat scallops for breakfast? But first\
I\'92ve got to have coffee coffee coffee ...\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to eat a small steak and onions.\'94\
\
\'93Not if you\'92re intending to spend the afternoon with me Mr. Herf.\'94\
\
\'93Oh all right. Ruth I lay my onions at your feet.\'94\
\
\'93That doesn\'92t mean I\'92m going to let you kiss me.\'94\
\
\'93What ... on the Palisades?\'94 Ruth\'92s giggle broke into a whoop of\
laughter. Jimmy blushed crimson. \'93I never axed you maam, he say-ed.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Sunlight dripped in her face through the little holes in the brim of\
her straw hat. She was walking with brisk steps too short on account of\
her narrow skirt; through the thin china silk the sunlight tingled like\
a hand stroking her back. In the heavy heat streets, stores, people in\
Sunday clothes, strawhats, sunshades, surfacecars, taxis, broke and\
crinkled brightly about her grazing her with sharp cutting glints as\
if she were walking through piles of metalshavings. She was groping\
continually through a tangle of gritty saw-edged brittle noise.\
\
At Lincoln Square a girl rode slowly through the traffic on a white\
horse; chestnut hair hung down in even faky waves over the horse\'92s\
chalky rump and over the giltedged saddlecloth where in green letters\
pointed with crimson, read DANDERINE. She had on a green Dolly Varden\
hat with a crimson plume; one hand in a white gauntlet nonchalantly\
jiggled at the reins, in the other wabbled a goldknobbed riding crop.\
\
Ellen watched her pass; then she followed a smudge of green through a\
cross-street to the Park. A smell of trampled sunsinged grass came from\
boys playing baseball. All the shady benches were full of people. When\
she crossed the curving automobile road her sharp French heels sank\
into the asphalt. Two sailors were sprawling on a bench in the sun; one\
of them popped his lips as she passed, she could feel their seagreedy\
eyes cling stickily to her neck, her thighs, her ankles. She tried\
to keep her hips from swaying so much as she walked. The leaves were\
shriveled on the saplings along the path. South and east sunnyfaced\
buildings hemmed in the Park, to the west they were violet with shadow.\
Everything was itching sweaty dusty constrained by policemen and Sunday\
clothes. Why hadn\'92t she taken the L? She was looking in the black eyes\
of a young man in a straw hat who was drawing up a red Stutz roadster\
to the curb. His eyes twinkled in hers, he jerked back his head smiling\
an upsidedown smile, pursing his lips so that they seemed to brush her\
cheek. He pulled the lever of the brake and opened the door with the\
other hand. She snapped her eyes away and walked on with her chin up.\
Two pigeons with metalgreen necks and feet of coral waddled out of her\
way. An old man was coaxing a squirrel to fish for peanuts in a paper\
bag.\
\
All in green on a white stallion rode the Lady of the Lost\
Battalion.... Green, green, danderine ... Godiva in the haughty mantle\
of her hair....\
\
General Sherman in gold interrupted her. She stopped a second to look\
at the Plaza that gleamed white as motherofpearl.... Yes this is Elaine\
Oglethorpe\'92s apartment.... She climbed up onto a Washington Square\
bus. Sunday afternoon Fifth Avenue filed by rosily dustily jerkily.\
On the shady side there was an occasional man in a top hat and frock\
coat. Sunshades, summer dresses, straw hats were bright in the sun\
that glinted in squares on the upper windows of houses, lay in bright\
slivers on the hard paint of limousines and taxicabs. It smelled of\
gasoline and asphalt, of spearmint and talcumpowder and perfume from\
the couples that jiggled closer and closer together on the seats of\
the bus. In an occasional storewindow, paintings, maroon draperies,\
varnished antique chairs behind plate glass. The St. Regis. Sherry\'92s.\
The man beside her wore spats and lemon gloves, a floorwalker probably.\
As they passed St. Patrick\'92s she caught a whiff of incense through the\
tall doors open into gloom. Delmonico\'92s. In front of her the young\
man\'92s arm was stealing round the narrow gray flannel back of the girl\
beside him.\
\
\'93Jez ole Joe had rotten luck, he had to marry her. He\'92s only nineteen.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose you would think it was hard luck.\'94\
\
\'93Myrtle I didn\'92t mean us.\'94\
\
\'93I bet you did. An anyways have you ever seen the girl?\'94\
\
\'93I bet it aint his.\'94\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93The kid.\'94\
\
\'93Billy how dreadfully you do talk.\'94\
\
Fortysecond Street. Union League Club. \'93It was a most amusing gathering\
... most amusing.... Everybody was there. For once the speeches were\
delightful, made me think of old times,\'94 croaked a cultivated voice\
behind her ear. The Waldorf. \'93Aint them flags swell Billy.... That\
funny one is cause the Siamese ambassador is staying there. I read\
about it in the paper this morning.\'94\
\
When thou and I my love shall come to part, Then shall I press an\
ineffable last kiss Upon your lips and go ... heart, start, who art ...\
Bliss, this, miss ... When thou ... When you and I my love ...\
\
Eighth Street. She got down from the bus and went into the basement of\
the Brevoort. George sat waiting with his back to the door snapping and\
unsnapping the lock of his briefcase. \'93Well Elaine it\'92s about time you\
turned up.... There aren\'92t many people I\'92d sit waiting three quarters\
of an hour for.\'94\
\
\'93George you mustn\'92t scold me; I\'92ve been having the time of my life. I\
haven\'92t had such a good time in years. I\'92ve had the whole day all to\
myself and I walked all the way down from 105th Street to Fiftyninth\
through the Park. It was full of the most comical people.\'94\
\
\'93You must be tired.\'94 His lean face where the bright eyes were caught in\
a web of fine wrinkles kept pressing forward into hers like the prow of\
a steamship.\
\
\'93I suppose you\'92ve been at the office all day George.\'94\
\
\'93Yes I\'92ve been digging out some cases. I cant rely on anyone else to do\
even routine work thoroughly, so I have to do it myself.\'94\
\
\'93Do you know I had it all decided you\'92d say that.\'94\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93About waiting three quarters of an hour.\'94\
\
\'93Oh you know altogether too much Elaine.... Have some pastries with\
your tea?\'94\
\
\'93Oh but I dont know anything about anything, that\'92s the trouble.... I\
think I\'92ll take lemon please.\'94\
\
Glasses clinked about them; through blue cigarettesmoke faces hats\
beards wagged, repeated greenish in the mirrors.\
\
\'93But my de-e-ar it\'92s always the same old complex. It may be true of men\
but it says nothing in regard to women,\'94 droned a woman\'92s voice from\
the next table.... \'93Your feminism rises into an insuperable barrier,\'94\
trailed a man\'92s husky meticulous tones. \'93What if I am an egoist? God\
knows I\'92ve suffered for it.\'94 \'93Fire that purifies, Charley....\'94 George\
was speaking, trying to catch her eye. \'93How\'92s the famous Jojo?\'94\
\
\'93Oh let\'92s not talk about him.\'94\
\
\'93The less said about him the better eh?\'94\
\
\'93Now George I wont have you sneer at Jojo, for better or worse he is\
my husband, till divorce do us part.... No I wont have you laugh.\
You\'92re too crude and simple to understand him anyway. Jojo\'92s a very\
complicated rather tragic person.\'94\
\
\'93For God\'92s sake don\'92t let\'92s talk about husbands and wives. The\
important thing, little Elaine, is that you and I are sitting here\
together without anyone to bother us.... Look when are we going to see\
each other again, really see each other, really....\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re not going to be too real about this, are we George?\'94 She laughed\
softly into her cup.\
\
\'93Oh but I have so many things to say to you. I want to ask you so many\
things.\'94\
\
She looked at him laughing, balancing a small cherry tartlet that had\
one bite out of it between a pink squaretipped finger and thumb. \'93Is\
that the way you act when you\'92ve got some miserable sinner on the\
witnessbox? I thought it was more like: Where were you on the night of\
February thirtyfirst?\'94\
\
\'93But I\'92m dead serious, that\'92s what you cant understand, or wont.\'94\
\
A young man stood at the table, swaying a little, looking down at them.\
\'93Hello Stan, where the dickens did you come from?\'94 Baldwin looked up\
at him without smiling. \'93Look Mr. Baldwin I know it\'92s awful rude, but\
may I sit down at your table a second. There\'92s somebody looking for me\
who I just cant meet. O God that mirror! Still they\'92d never look for me\
if they saw you.\'94\
\
\'93Miss Oglethorpe this is Stanwood Emery, the son of the senior partner\
in our firm.\'94\
\
\'93Oh it\'92s so wonderful to meet you Miss Oglethorpe. I saw you last\
night, but you didn\'92t see me.\'94\
\
\'93Did you go to the show?\'94\
\
\'93I almost jumped over the foots I thought you were so wonderful.\'94\
\
He had a ruddy brown skin, anxious eyes rather near the bridge of\
a sharp fragillycut nose, a big mouth never still, wavy brown hair\
that stood straight up. Ellen looked from one to the other inwardly\
giggling. They were all three stiffening in their chairs.\
\
\'93I saw the danderine lady this afternoon,\'94 she said. \'93She impressed me\
enormously. Just my idea of a great lady on a white horse.\'94\
\
\'93With rings on her finger and bells on her toes, And she shall make\
mischief wherever she goes.\'94 Stan rattled it off quickly under his\
breath.\
\
\'93Music, isnt it?\'94 put in Ellen laughing. \'93I always say mischief.\'94\
\
\'93Well how\'92s college?\'94 asked Baldwin in a dry uncordial voice.\
\
\'93I guess it\'92s still there,\'94 said Stan blushing. \'93I wish they\'92d burn it\
down before I got back.\'94 He got to his feet. \'93You must excuse me Mr.\
Baldwin.... My intrusion was infernally rude.\'94 As he turned leaning\
towards Ellen she smelled his grainy whiskey breath. \'93Please forgive\
it, Miss Oglethorpe.\'94\
\
She found herself holding out her hand; a dry skinny hand squeezed it\
hard. He strode out with swinging steps bumping into a waiter as he\
went.\
\
\'93I cant make out that infernal young puppy,\'94 burst out Baldwin. \'93Poor\
old Emery\'92s heartbroken about it. He\'92s darn clever and has a lot of\
personality and all that sort of thing, but all he does is drink and\
raise Cain.... I guess all he needs is to go to work and get a sense\
of values. Too much money\'92s what\'92s the matter with most of those\
collegeboys.... Oh but Elaine thank God we\'92re alone again. I have\
worked continuously all my life ever since I was fourteen. The time has\
come when I want to lay aside all that for a while. I want to live and\
travel and think and be happy. I cant stand the pace of downtown the\
way I used to. I want to learn to play, to ease off the tension....\
That\'92s where you come in.\'94\
\
\'93But I don\'92t want to be the nigger on anybody\'92s safety-valve.\'94 She\
laughed and let the lashes fall over her eyes.\
\
\'93Let\'92s go out to the country somewhere this evening. I\'92ve been stifling\
in the office all day. I hate Sunday anyway.\'94\
\
\'93But my rehearsal.\'94\
\
\'93You could be sick. I\'92ll phone for a car.\'94\
\
\'93Golly there\'92s Jojo.... Hello Jojo\'94; she waved her gloves above her\
head.\
\
John Oglethorpe, his face powdered, his mouth arranged in a careful\
smile above his standup collar, advanced between the crowded tables,\
holding out his hand tightly squeezed into buff gloves with black\
stripes. \'93Heow deo you deo, my deah, this is indeed a surprise and a\
pleajah.\'94\
\
\'93You know each other, don\'92t you? This is Mr. Baldwin.\'94\
\
\'93Forgive me if I intrude ... er ... upon a t\'eate \'e0 t\'eate.\'94\
\
\'93Nothing of the sort, sit down and we\'92ll all have a highball.... I was\
just dying to see you really Jojo.... By the way if you havent anything\
else to do this evening you might slip in down front for a few minutes.\
I want to know what you think about my reading of the part....\'94\
\
\'93Certainly my deah, nothing could give me more pleajah.\'94\
\
His whole body tense George Baldwin leaned back with his hand clasped\
behind the back of his chair. \'93Waiter ...\'94 He broke his words off sharp\
like metal breaking. \'93Three Scotch highballs at once please.\'94\
\
Oglethorpe rested his chin on the silver ball of his cane. \'93Confidence,\
Mr. Baldwin,\'94 he began, \'93confidence between husband and wife is a very\
beautiful thing. Space and time have no effect on it. Were one of us to\
go to China for a thousand years it would not change our affection one\
tittle.\'94\
\
\'93You see George, what\'92s the matter with Jojo is that he read too much\
Shakespeare in his youth.... But I\'92ve got to go or Merton will be\
bawling me out again.... Talk about industrial slavery. Jojo tell him\
about Equity.\'94\
\
Baldwin got to his feet. There was a slight flush on his cheekbones.\
\'93Wont you let me take you up to the theater,\'94 he said through clenched\
teeth.\
\
\'93I never let anyone take me anywhere ... And Jojo you must stay sober\
to see me act.\'94\
\
Fifth Avenue was pink and white under pink and white clouds in a\
fluttering wind that was fresh after the cloying talk and choke of\
tobaccosmoke and cocktails. She waved the taxistarter off merrily and\
smiled at him. Then she found a pair of anxious eyes looking into hers\
seriously out of a higharched brown face.\
\
\'93I waited round to see you come out. Cant I take you somewhere? I\'92ve\
got my Ford round the corner.... Please.\'94\
\
\'93But I\'92m just going up to the theater. I\'92ve got a rehearsal.\'94\
\
\'93All right do let me take you there.\'94\
\
She began putting a glove on thoughtfully. \'93All right, but it\'92s an\
awful imposition on you.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s fine. It\'92s right round here.... It was awfully rude of me to\
butt in that way, wasn\'92t it? But that\'92s another story.... Anyway I\'92ve\
met you. The Ford\'92s name is Dingo, but that\'92s another story too....\'94\
\
\'93Still it\'92s nice to meet somebody humanly young. There\'92s nobody humanly\
young round New York.\'94\
\
His face was scarlet when he leaned to crank the car. \'93Oh I\'92m too damn\
young.\'94\
\
The motor sputtered, started with a roar. He jumped round and cut off\
the gas with a long hand. \'93We\'92ll probably get arrested; my muffler\'92s\
loose and liable to drop off.\'94\
\
At Thirtyfourth Street they passed a girl riding slowly through the\
traffic on a white horse; chestnut hair hung down in even faky waves\
over the horse\'92s chalky rump and over the giltedged saddlecloth where\
in green letters pointed with crimson read DANDERINE.\
\
\'93Rings on her fingers,\'94 chanted Stan pressing his buzzer, \'93And bells on\
her toes, And she shall cure dandruff wherever it grows.\'94\
\
\
\
\
II. Longlegged Jack of the Isthmus\
\
          _Noon on Union Square. Selling out. Must vacate. WE HAVE\
          MADE A TERRIBLE MISTAKE. Kneeling on the dusty asphalt\
          little boys shine shoes lowshoes tans buttonshoes oxfords.\
          The sun shines like a dandelion on the toe of each\
          new-shined shoe. Right this way buddy, mister miss maam at\
          the back of the store our new line of fancy tweeds highest\
          value lowest price ... Gents, misses, ladies, cutrate ...\
          WE HAVE MADE A TERRIBLE MISTAKE. Must vacate._\
\
          _Noon sunlight spirals dimly into the chopsuey joint.\
          Muted music spirals Hindustan. He eats fooyong, she eats\
          chowmein. They dance with their mouths full, slim blue\
          jumper squeezed to black slick suit, peroxide curls against\
          black slick hair._\
\
          _Down Fourteenth Street, Glory Glory comes the Army,\
          striding lasses, Glory Glory four abreast, the rotund\
          shining, navy blue, Salvation Army band._\
\
          _Highest value, lowest price. Must vacate. WE HAVE MADE A\
          TERRIBLE MISTAKE. Must vacate._\
\
\
     From Liverpool, British steamer Raleigh, Captain Kettlewell;\
     933 bales, 881 boxes, 10 baskets, 8 packages fabrics: 57\
     boxes, 89 bales, 18 baskets cotton thread: 156 bales felt: 4\
     bales asbestos: 100 sacks spools....\
\
\
Joe Harland stopped typing and looked up at the ceiling. The tips\
of his fingers were sore. The office smelled stalely of paste and\
manifests and men in shirtsleeves. Through the open window he could see\
a piece of the dun wall of an airshaft and a man with a green eyeshade\
staring vacantly out of a window. The towheaded officeboy set a note\
on the corner of his desk: Mr. Pollock will see you at 5:10. A hard\
lump caught in his throat; he\'92s going to fire me. His fingers started\
tapping again:\
\
     From Glasgow, Dutch steamer Delft, Captain Tromp; 200\
     bales, 123 boxes, 14 kegs....\
\
Joe Harland roamed about the Battery till he found an empty seat on\
a bench, then he let himself flop into it. The sun was drowning in\
tumultuous saffron steam behind Jersey. Well that\'92s over. He sat a\
long while staring at the sunset like at a picture in a dentist\'92s\
waiting room. Great whorls of smoke from a passing tug curled up black\
and scarlet against it. He sat staring at the sunset, waiting. That\'92s\
eighteen dollars and fifty cents I had before, less six dollars for the\
room, one dollar and eighty-four cents for laundry, and four dollars\
and fifty cents I owe Charley, makes seven dollars and eighty-four\
cents, eleven dollars and eighty four cents, twelve dollars and\
thirty-four cents from eighteen dollars and fifty cents leaves me\
six dollars and sixteen cents, three days to find another job if I\
go without drinks. O God wont my luck ever turn; used to have good\
enough luck in the old days. His knees were trembling, there was a sick\
burning in the pit of his stomach.\
\
A fine mess you\'92ve made of your life Joseph Harland. Forty-five and no\
friends and not a cent to bless yourself with.\
\
The sail of a catboat was a crimson triangle when it luffed a few feet\
from the concrete walk. A young man and a young girl ducked together as\
the slender boom swung across. They both were bronzed with the sun and\
had yellow weather bleached hair. Joe Harland gnawed his lip to keep\
back the tears as the catboat shrank into the ruddy murk of the bay. By\
God I need a drink.\
\
\'93Aint it a croime? Aint it a croime?\'94 The man in the seat to the left\
of him began to say over and over again. Joe Harland turned his head;\
the man had a red puckered face and silver hair. He held the dramatic\
section of the paper taut between two grimy flippers. \'93Them young\
actresses all dressed naked like that.... Why cant they let you alone.\'94\
\
\'93Dont you like to see their pictures in the papers?\'94\
\
\'93Why cant they let you alone I say.... If you aint got no work and you\
aint got no money, what\'92s the good of em I say?\'94\
\
\'93Well lots of people like to see their pictures in the paper. Used to\
myself in the old days.\'94\
\
\'93Used to be work in the old days.... You aint got no job now?\'94 he\
growled savagely. Joe Harland shook his head. \'93Well what the hell?\
They ought to leave you alone oughtn\'92t they? Wont be no jobs till snow\
shoveling begins.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92ll you do till then?\'94\
\
The old man didnt answer. He bent over the paper again screwing up his\
eyes and muttering. \'93All dressed naked, it\'92s a croime I\'92m tellin yez.\'94\
\
Joe Harland got to his feet and walked away.\
\
It was almost dark; his knees were stiff from sitting still so long. As\
he walked wearily he could feel his potbelly cramped by his tight belt.\
Poor old warhorse you need a couple of drinks to think about things.\
A mottled beery smell came out through swinging doors. Inside the\
barkeep\'92s face was like a russet apple on a snug mahogany shelf.\
\
\'93Gimme a shot of rye.\'94 The whiskey stung his throat hot and fragrant.\
Makes a man of me that does. Without drinking the chaser he walked\
over to the free lunch and ate a ham sandwich and an olive. \'93Let\'92s\
have another rye Charley. That\'92s the stuff to make a man of you. I\
been laying off it too much, that\'92s what\'92s the matter with me. You\
wouldnt think it to look at me now, would you friend, but they used to\
call me the Wizard of Wall Street which is only another illustration\
of the peculiar predominance of luck in human affairs.... Yes sir\
with pleasure. Well, here\'92s health and long life and to hell with the\
jinx.... Hah makes a man of you ... Well I suppose there\'92s not one of\
you gentlemen here who hasnt at some time or other taken a plunger, and\
how many of you hasnt come back sadder and wiser. Another illustration\
of the peculiar predominance of luck in human affairs. But not so\
with me; gentlemen for ten years I played the market, for ten years I\
didn\'92t have a ticker ribbon out of my hand day or night, and in ten\
years I only took a cropper three times, till the last time. Gentlemen\
I\'92m going to tell you a secret. I\'92m going to tell you a very important\
secret.... Charley give these very good friends of mine another round,\
my treat, and have a nip yourself.... My, that tickles her in the\
right place.... Gentlemen just another illustration of the peculiar\
predominance of luck in human affairs. Gentlemen the secret of my\
luck ... this is exact I assure you; you can verify it yourselves in\
newspaper articles, magazines, speeches, lectures delivered in those\
days; a man, and a dirty blackguard he turned out to be eventually,\
even wrote a detective story about me called the Secret of Success,\
which you can find in the New York Public Library if you care to look\
the matter up.... The secret of my success was ... and when you hear\
it you\'92ll laugh among yourselves and say Joe Harland\'92s drunk, Joe\
Harland\'92s an old fool.... Yes you will.... For ten years I\'92m telling\
you I traded on margins, I bought outright, I covered on stocks I\'92d\
never even heard the name of and every time I cleaned up. I piled up\
money. I had four banks in the palm of my hand. I began eating my way\
into sugar and gutta percha, but in that I was before my time.... But\
you\'92re getting nervous to know my secret, you think you could use\
it.... Well you couldnt.... It was a blue silk crocheted necktie that\
my mother made for me when I was a little boy.... Dont you laugh, God\
damn you.... No I\'92m not starting anything. Just another illustration of\
the peculiar predominance of luck. The day I chipped in with another\
fellow to spread a thousand dollars over some Louisville and Nashville\
on margin I wore that necktie. Soared twentyfive points in twentyfive\
minutes. That was the beginning. Then gradually I began to notice that\
the times I didnt wear that necktie were the times I lost money. It got\
so old and ragged I tried carrying it in my pocket. Didnt do any good.\
I had to wear it, do you understand?... The rest is the old old story\
gentlemen.... There was a girl, God damn her and I loved her. I wanted\
to show her that there was nothing in the world I wouldnt do for her\
so I gave it to her. I pretended it was a joke and laughed it off, ha\
ha ha. She said, Why it\'92s no good, it\'92s all worn out, and she threw it\
in the fire.... Only another illustration.... Friend you wouldn\'92t set\
me up to another drink would you? I find myself unexpectedly out of\
funds this afternoon.... I thank you sir.... Ah that puts ginger in you\
again.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
In the crammed subway car the messenger boy was pressed up against\
the back of a tall blond woman who smelled of Mary Garden. Elbows,\
packages, shoulders, buttocks, jiggled closer with every lurch of the\
screeching express. His sweaty Western Union cap was knocked onto the\
side of his head. If I could have a dame like dat, a dame like dat\'92d\
be wort havin de train stalled, de lights go out, de train wrecked. I\
could have her if I had de noive an de jack. As the train slowed up\
she fell against him, he closed his eyes, didnt breathe, his nose was\
mashed against her neck. The train stopped. He was carried in a rush of\
people out the door.\
\
Dizzy he staggered up into the air and the blinking blocks of lights.\
Upper Broadway was full of people. Sailors lounged in twos and threes\
at the corner of Ninetysixth. He ate a ham and a leberwurst sandwich in\
a delicatessen store. The woman behind the counter had buttercolored\
hair like the girl in the subway but she was fatter and older. Still\
chewing the crust of the last sandwich he went up in the elevator to\
the Japanese Garden. He sat thinking a while with the flicker of the\
screen in his eyes. Jeze dey\'92ll tink it funny to see a messengerboy up\
here in dis suit. I better get de hell outa here. I\'92ll go deliver my\
telegrams.\
\
He tightened his belt as he walked down the stairs. Then he slouched\
up Broadway to 105th Street and east towards Columbus Avenue, noting\
doors, fire escapes, windows, cornices, carefully as he went. Dis is\
de joint. The only lights were on the second floor. He rang the second\
floor bell. The doorcatch clicked. He ran up the stairs. A woman with\
weedy hair and a face red from leaning over the stove poked her head\
out.\
\
\'93Telegram for Santiono.\'94\
\
\'93No such name here.\'94\
\
\'93Sorry maam I musta rung de wrong bell.\'94\
\
Door slammed in his nose. His sallow sagging face tightened up all of\
a sudden. He ran lightly on tiptoe up the stairs to the top landing\
then up the little ladder to a trapdoor. The bolt ground as he slid it\
back. He caught in his breath. Once on the cindergritty roof he let\
the trapdoor back softly into place. Chimneys stood up in alert ranks\
all about him, black against the glare from the streets. Crouching\
he stepped gingerly to the rear edge of the house, let himself down\
from the gutter to the fire escape. His foot grazed a flowerpot as\
he landed. Everything dark. Crawled through a window into a stuffy\
womansmelling room, slid a hand under the pillow of an unmade bed,\
along a bureau, spilled some facepowder, in tiny jerks pulled open\
the drawer, a watch, ran a pin into his finger, a brooch, something\
that crinkled in the back corner; bills, a roll of bills. Getaway, no\
chances tonight. Down the fire escape to the next floor. No light.\
Another window open. Takin candy from a baby. Same room, smelling of\
dogs and incense, some kind of dope. He could see himself faintly,\
fumbling, in the glass of the bureau, put his hand into a pot of cold\
cream, wiped it off on his pants. Hell. Something fluffysoft shot with\
a yell from under his feet. He stood trembling in the middle of the\
narrow room. The little dog was yapping loud in a corner.\
\
The room swung into light. A girl stood in the open door, pointing a\
revolver at him. There was a man behind her.\
\
\'93What are you doing? Why it\'92s a Western Union boy....\'94 The light was a\
coppery tangle about her hair, picked out her body under the red silk\
kimono. The young man was wiry and brown in his unbuttoned shirt. \'93Well\
what are you doing in that room?\'94\
\
\'93Please maam it was hunger brought me to it, hunger an my poor ole\
muder starvin.\'94\
\
\'93Isnt that wonderful Stan? He\'92s a burglar.\'94 She brandished the\
revolver. \'93Come on out in the hall.\'94\
\
\'93Yes miss anythin you say miss, but dont give me up to de bulls. Tink o\
de ole muder starvin her heart out.\'94\
\
\'93All right but if you took anything you must give it back.\'94\
\
\'93Honest I didn\'92t have a chanct.\'94\
\
Stan flopped into a chair laughing and laughing. \'93Ellie you take the\
cake.... Wouldnt a thought you could do it.\'94\
\
\'93Well didnt I play this scene in stock all last summer?... Give up your\
gun.\'94\
\
\'93No miss I wouldn\'92t carry no gun.\'94\
\
\'93Well I dont believe you but I guess I\'92ll let you go.\'94\
\
\'93Gawd bless you miss.\'94\
\
\'93But you must make some money as a messengerboy.\'94\
\
\'93I was fired last week miss, it\'92s only hunger made me take to it.\'94\
\
Stan got to his feet. \'93Let\'92s give him a dollar an tell him to get the\
hell out of here.\'94\
\
When he was outside the door she held out the dollarbill to him.\
\
\'93Jez you\'92re white,\'94 he said choking. He grabbed the hand with the bill\
in it and kissed it; leaning over her hand kissing it wetly he caught\
a glimpse of her body under the arm in the drooping red silk sleeve.\
As he walked, still trembling, down the stairs, he looked back and\
saw the man and the girl standing side by side with their arms around\
each other watching him. His eyes were full of tears. He stuffed the\
dollarbill into his pocket.\
\
Kid if you keep on bein a softie about women you\'92re goin to find\
yourself in dat lil summer hotel up de river.... Pretty soft though.\
Whistling under his breath he walked to the L and took an uptown train.\
Now and then he put his hand over his back pocket to feel the roll of\
bills. He ran up to the third floor of an apartmenthouse that smelled\
of fried fish and coal gas, and rang three times at a grimy glass door.\
After a pause he knocked softly.\
\
\'93Zat you Moike?\'94 came faintly the whine of a woman\'92s voice.\
\
\'93No it\'92s Nicky Schatz.\'94\
\
A sharpfaced woman with henna hair opened the door. She had on a fur\
coat over frilly lace underclothes.\
\
\'93Howsa boy?\'94\
\
\'93Jeze a swell dame caught me when I was tidying up a little job and\
whatjer tink she done?\'94 He followed the woman, talking excitedly, into\
a dining room with peeling walls. On the table were used glasses and a\
bottle of Green River whiskey. \'93She gave me a dollar an tole me to be a\
good little boy.\'94\
\
\'93The hell she did?\'94\
\
\'93Here\'92s a watch.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s an Ingersoll, I dont call \'92at a watch.\'94\
\
\'93Well set yer lamps on dis.\'94 He pulled out the roll of bills. \'93Aint dat\
a wad o lettuce?... Got in himmel, dey\'92s tousands.\'94\
\
\'93Lemme see.\'94 She grabbed the bills out of his hand, her eyes popping.\
\'93Hay ye\'92re cookoo kid.\'94 She threw the roll on the floor and wrung her\
hands with a swaying Jewish gesture. \'93Oyoy it\'92s stage money. It\'92s stage\
money ye simple saphead, you goddam ...\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Giggling they sat side by side on the edge of the bed. Through the\
stuffy smell of the room full of little silky bits of clothing falling\
off chairs a fading freshness came from a bunch of yellow roses on the\
bureau. Their arms tightened round each other\'92s shoulders; suddenly\
he wrenched himself away and leaned over her to kiss her mouth. \'93Some\
burglar,\'94 he said breathlessly.\
\
\'93Stan ...\'94\
\
\'93Ellie.\'94\
\
\'93I thought it might be Jojo;\'94 she managed to force a whisper through a\
tight throat. \'93It\'92ll be just like him to come sneaking around.\'94\
\
\'93Ellie I don\'92t understand how you can live with him among all these\
people. You\'92re so lovely. I just dont see you in all this.\'94\
\
\'93It was easy enough before I met you.... And honestly Jojo\'92s all right.\
He\'92s just a peculiar very unhappy person.\'94\
\
\'93But you\'92re out of another world old kid.... You ought to live on top\
of the Woolworth Building in an apartment made of cutglass and cherry\
blossoms.\'94\
\
\'93Stan your back\'92s brown all the way down.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s swimming.\'94\
\
\'93So soon?\'94\
\
\'93I guess most of it\'92s left over from last summer.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re the fortunate youth all right. I never learned how to swim\
properly.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll teach you.... Look next Sunday bright and early we\'92ll hop into\
Dingo and go down to Long Beach. Way down at the end there\'92s never\
anybody.... You dont even have to wear a bathingsuit.\'94\
\
\'93I like the way you\'92re so lean and hard Stan.... Jojo\'92s white and\
flabby almost like a woman.\'94\
\
\'93For crissake don\'92t talk about him now.\'94\
\
Stan stood with his legs apart buttoning his shirt. \'93Look Ellie let\'92s\
beat it out an have a drink.... God I\'92d hate to run into somebody now\
an have to talk lies to \'92em.... I bet I\'92d crown \'92em with a chair.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve got time. Nobody ever comes home here before twelve.... I\'92m just\
here myself because I\'92ve got a sick headache.\'94\
\
\'93Ellie, d\'92you like your sick headache?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m crazy about it Stan.\'94\
\
\'93I guess that Western Union burglar knew that.... Gosh.... Burglary,\
adultery, sneaking down fireescapes, cattreading along gutters. Judas\
it\'92s a great life.\'94\
\
Ellen gripped his hand hard as they came down the stairs stepping\
together. In front of the letterboxes in the shabby hallway he grabbed\
her suddenly by the shoulders and pressed her head back and kissed her.\
Hardly breathing they floated down the street toward Broadway. He had\
his hand under her arm, she squeezed it tight against her ribs with\
her elbow. Aloof, as if looking through thick glass into an aquarium,\
she watched faces, fruit in storewindows, cans of vegetables, jars of\
olives, redhotpokerplants in a florist\'92s, newspapers, electric signs\
drifting by. When they passed cross-streets a puff of air came in\
her face off the river. Sudden jetbright glances of eyes under straw\
hats, attitudes of chins, thin lips, pouting lips, Cupid\'92s bows,\
hungry shadow under cheekbones, faces of girls and young men nuzzled\
fluttering against her like moths as she walked with her stride even to\
his through the tingling yellow night.\
\
Somewhere they sat down at a table. An orchestra throbbed. \'93No Stan I\
cant drink anything.... You go ahead.\'94\
\
\'93But Ellie, arent you feeling swell like I am?\'94\
\
\'93Sweller.... I just couldnt stand feeling any better.... I couldnt\
keep my mind on a glass long enough to drink it.\'94 She winced under the\
brightness of his eyes.\
\
Stan was bubbling drunk. \'93I wish earth had thy body as fruit to eat,\'94\
he kept repeating. Ellen was all the time twisting about bits of\
rubbery cold Welsh rabbit with her fork. She had started to drop with a\
lurching drop like a rollercoaster\'92s into shuddering pits of misery. In\
a square place in the middle of the floor four couples were dancing the\
tango. She got to her feet.\
\
\'93Stan I\'92m going home. I\'92ve got to get up early and rehearse all day.\
Call me up at twelve at the theater.\'94\
\
He nodded and poured himself another highball. She stood behind his\
chair a second looking down at his long head of close ruffled hair.\
He was spouting verses softly to himself. \'93Saw the white implacable\
Aphrodite, damn fine. Saw the hair unbound and the feet unsandaled,\
Jiminy.... Shine as fire of sunset on western waters. Saw the reluctant\
... goddam fine sapphics.\'94\
\
Once out on Broadway again she felt very merry. She stood in the\
middle of the street waiting for the uptown car. An occasional taxi\
whizzed by her. From the river on the warm wind came the long moan of\
a steamboat whistle. In the pit inside her thousands of gnomes were\
building tall brittle glittering towers. The car swooped ringing along\
the rails, stopped. As she climbed in she remembered swooningly the\
smell of Stan\'92s body sweating in her arms. She let herself drop into\
a seat, biting her lips to keep from crying out. God it\'92s terrible to\
be in love. Opposite two men with chinless bluefish faces were talking\
hilariously, slapping fat knees.\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell yer Jim it\'92s Irene Castle that makes the hit wid me.... To\
see her dance the onestep juss makes me hear angels hummin.\'94\
\
\'93Naw she\'92s too skinny.\'94\
\
\'93But she\'92s made the biggest hit ever been made on Broadway.\'94\
\
Ellen got off the car and walked east along the desolate empty\
pavements of 105th Street. A fetor of mattresses and sleep seeped\
out from the blocks of narrow-windowed houses. Along the gutters\
garbagecans stank sourly. In the shadow of a doorway a man and girl\
swayed tightly clamped in each other\'92s arms. Saying good night. Ellen\
smiled happily. Greatest hit on Broadway. The words were an elevator\
carrying her up dizzily, up into some stately height where electric\
light signs crackled scarlet and gold and green, where were bright\
roofgardens that smelled of orchids, and the slow throb of a tango\
danced in a goldgreen dress with Stan while handclapping of millions\
beat in gusts like a hailstorm about them. Greatest hit on Broadway.\
\
She was walking up the scaling white stairs. Before the door marked\
Sunderland a feeling of sick disgust suddenly choked her. She stood a\
long time her heart pounding with the key poised before the lock. Then\
with a jerk she pushed the key in the lock and opened the door.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Strange fish, Jimmy, strange fish.\'94 Herf and Ruth Prynne sat giggling\
over plates of pat\'e9 in the innermost corner of a clattery lowceilinged\
restaurant. \'93All the ham actors in the world seem to eat here.\'94\
\
\'93All the ham actors in the world live up at Mrs. Sunderland\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the latest news from the Balkans?\'94\
\
\'93Balkans is right...\'94\
\
Beyond Ruth\'92s black straw hat with red poppies round the crown Jimmy\
looked at the packed tables where faces decomposed into a graygreen\
blur. Two sallow hawkfaced waiters elbowed their way through the\
seesawing chatter of talk. Ruth was looking at him with dilated\
laughing eyes while she bit at a stalk of celery.\
\
\'93Whee I feel so drunk,\'94 she was spluttering. \'93It went straight to my\
head.... Isnt it terrible?\'94\
\
\'93Well what were these shocking goingson at 105th Street?\'94\
\
\'93O you missed it. It was a shriek.... Everybody was out in the hall,\
Mrs. Sunderland with her hair in curlpapers, and Cassie was crying and\
Tony Hunter was standing in his door in pink pyjamas....\'94\
\
\'93Who\'92s he?\'94\
\
\'93Just a juvenile.... But Jimmy I must have told you about Tony Hunter.\
Peculiar poissons Jimmy, peculiar poissons.\'94\
\
Jimmy felt himself blushing, he bent over his plate. \'93Oh is that\'92s\
what\'92s his trouble?\'94 he said stiffly.\
\
\'93Now you\'92re shocked, Jimmy; admit that you\'92re shocked.\'94\
\
\'93No I\'92m not; go ahead, spill the dirt.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Jimmy you\'92re such a shriek.... Well Cassie was sobbing and the\
little dog was barking, and the invisible Costello was yelling Police\
and fainting into the arms of an unknown man in a dress suit. And\
Jojo was brandishing a revolver, a little nickel one, may have been\
a waterpistol for all I know.... The only person who looked in their\
right senses was Elaine Olgethorpe.... You know the titianhaired vision\
that so impressed your infant mind.\'94\
\
\'93Honestly Ruth my infant mind wasnt as impressed as all that.\'94\
\
\'93Well at last the Ogle got tired of his big scene and cried out in\
ringing tones, Disarm me or I shall kill this woman. And Tony Hunter\
grabbed the pistol and took it into his room. Then Elaine Oglethorpe\
made a little bow as if she were taking a curtaincall, said Well\
goodnight everybody, and ducked into her room cool as a cucumber....\
Can you picture it?\'94 Ruth suddenly lowered her voice, \'93But everybody\
in the restaurant is listening to us.... And really I think its very\
disgusting. But the worst is yet to come. After the Ogle had banged on\
the door a couple of times and not gotten any answer he went up to Tony\
and rolling his eyes like Forbes Robertson in Hamlet put his arm round\
him and said Tony can a broken man crave asylum in your room for the\
night.... Honestly I was just so shocked.\'94\
\
\'93Is Oglethorpe that way too?\'94\
\
Ruth nodded several times.\
\
\'93Then why did she marry him?\'94\
\
\'93Why that girl\'92d marry a trolleycar if she thought she could get\
anything by it.\'94\
\
\'93Ruth honestly I think you\'92ve got the whole thing sized up wrong.\'94\
\
\'93Jimmy you\'92re too innocent to live. But let me finish the tragic\
tale.... After those two had disappeared and locked the door behind\
them the most awful powwow you\'92ve ever imagined went on in the hall. Of\
course Cassie had been having hysterics all along just to add to the\
excitement. When I came back from getting her some sweet spirits of\
ammonia in the bathroom I found the court in session. It was a shriek.\
Miss Costello wanted the Oglethorpes thrown out at dawn and said she\'92d\
leave if they didn\'92t and Mrs. Sunderland kept moaning that in thirty\
years of theatrical experience she\'92d never seen a scene like that,\
and the man in the dress suit who was Benjamin Arden ... you know he\
played a character part in Honeysuckle Jim ... said he thought people\
like Tony Hunter ought to be in jail. When I went to bed it was still\
going on. Do you wonder that I slept late after all that and kept you\
waiting, poor child, an hour in the Times Drug Store?\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Joe Harland stood in his hall bedroom with his hands in his pockets\
staring at the picture of The Stag at Bay that hung crooked in the\
middle of the verdegris wall that hemmed in the shaky iron bed. His\
clawcold fingers moved restlessly in the bottoms of his trousers\
pockets. He was talking aloud in a low even voice: \'93Oh, it\'92s all luck\
you know, but that\'92s the last time I try the Merivales. Emily\'92d have\
given it to me if it hadn\'92t been for that damned old tightwad. Got a\
soft spot in her heart Emily has. But none of em seem to realize that\
these things aren\'92t always a man\'92s own fault. It\'92s luck that\'92s all it\
is, and Lord knows they used to eat out of my hand in the old days.\'94\
His rising voice grated on his ears. He pressed his lips together.\
You\'92re getting batty old man. He stepped back and forth in the narrow\
space between the bed and the wall. Three steps. Three steps. He went\
to the washstand and drank out of the pitcher. The water tasted of\
rank wood and sloppails. He spat the last mouthful back. I need a good\
tenderloin steak not water. He pounded his clenched fists together. I\
got to do something. I got to do something.\
\
He put on his overcoat to hide the rip in the seat of his trousers.\
The frayed sleeves tickled his wrists. The dark stairs creaked. He was\
so weak he kept grabbing the rail for fear of falling. The old woman\
pounced out of a door on him in the lower hall. The rat had squirmed\
sideways on her head as if trying to escape from under the thin gray\
pompadour.\
\
\'93Meester Harland how about you pay me tree veeks rent?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m just on my way out to cash a check now, Mrs. Budkowitz. You\'92ve\
been so kind about this little matter.... And perhaps it will interest\
you to know that I have the promise, no I may say the certainty of a\
very good position beginning Monday.\'94\
\
\'93I vait tree veeks ... I not vait any more.\'94\
\
\'93But my dear lady I assure you upon my honor as a gentleman...\'94\
\
Mrs. Budkowitz began to jerk her shoulders about. Her voice rose thin\
and wailing like the sound of a peanut wagon. \'93You pay me tat fifteen\
dollar or I rent te room to somebody else.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll pay you this very evening.\'94\
\
\'93Vat time?\'94\
\
\'93Six o\'92clock.\'94\
\
\'93Allright. Plis you give me key.\'94\
\
\'93But I cant do that. Suppose I was late?\'94\
\
\'93Tat\'92s vy I vant te key. I\'92m trough vit vaiting.\'94\
\
\'93All right take the key..... I hope you understand that after this\
insulting behavior it will be impossible for me to remain longer under\
your roof.\'94\
\
Mrs. Budkowitz laughed hoarsely. \'93Allright ven you pay me fifteen\
dollar you can take avay your grip.\'94 He put the two keys tied together\
with string into her gray hand and slammed the door and strode down the\
street.\
\
At the corner of Third Avenue he stopped and stood shivering in the hot\
afternoon sunlight, sweat running down behind his ears. He was too weak\
to swear. Jagged oblongs of harsh sound broke one after another over\
his head as an elevated past over. Trucks grated by along the avenue\
raising a dust that smelled of gasoline and trampled horsedung. The\
dead air stank of stores and lunchrooms. He began walking slowly uptown\
towards Fourteenth Street. At a corner a crinkly warm smell of cigars\
stopped him like a hand on his shoulder. He stood a while looking in\
the little shop watching the slim stained fingers of the cigarroller\
shuffle the brittle outside leaves of tobacco. Remembering Romeo and\
Juliet Arguelles Morales he sniffed deeply. The slick tearing of\
tinfoil, the careful slipping off of the band, the tiny ivory penknife\
for the end that slit delicately as flesh, the smell of the wax match,\
the long inhaling of bitter crinkled deep sweet smoke. And now sir\
about this little matter of the new Northern Pacific bond issue.... He\
clenched his fists in the clammy pockets of his raincoat. Take my key\
would she the old harridan? I\'92ll show her, damn it. Joe Harland may be\
down and out but he\'92s got his pride yet.\
\
He walked west along Fourteenth and without stopping to think and lose\
his nerve went down into a small basement stationery store, strode\
through unsteadily to the back, and stood swaying in the doorway of a\
little office where sat at a rolltop desk a blueeyed baldheaded fat man.\
\
\'93Hello Felsius,\'94 croaked Harland.\
\
The fat man got to his feet bewildered. \'93God it aint Mr. Harland is it?\'94\
\
\'93Joe Harland himself Felsius ... er somewhat the worse for wear.\'94 A\
titter died in his throat.\
\
\'93Well I\'92ll be ... Sit right down Mr. Harland.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you Felsius.... Felsius I\'92m down and out.\'94\
\
\'93It must be five years since I\'92ve seen you Mr. Harland.\'94\
\
\'93A rotten five years it\'92s been for me.... I suppose its all luck. My\
luck wont ever change on this earth again. Remember when I\'92d come in\
from romping with the bulls and raise hell round the office? A pretty\
good bonus I gave the office force that Christmas.\'94\
\
\'93Indeed it was Mr. Harland.\'94\
\
\'93Must be a dull life storekeeping after the Street.\'94\
\
\'93More to my taste Mr. Harland, nobody to boss me here.\'94\
\
\'93And how\'92s the wife and kids?\'94\
\
\'93Fine, fine; the oldest boy\'92s just out of highschool.\'94\
\
\'93That the one you named for me?\'94\
\
Felsius nodded. His fingers fat as sausages were tapping uneasily on\
the edge of the desk.\
\
\'93I remember I thought I\'92d do something for that kid someday. It\'92s a\
funny world.\'94 Harland laughed feebly. He felt a shuddery blackness\
stealing up behind his head. He clenched his hands round his knee and\
contracted the muscles of his arms. \'93You see Felsius, it\'92s this way....\
I find myself for the moment in a rather embarrassing situation\
financially.... You know how those things are.\'94 Felsius was staring\
straight ahead of him into the desk. Beads of sweat were starting out\
of his bald head. \'93We all have our spell of bad luck dont we? I want\
to float a very small loan for a few days, just a few dollars, say\
twentyfive until certain combinations...\'94\
\
\'93Mr. Harland I cant do it.\'94 Felsius got to his feet. \'93I\'92m sorry but\
principles is principles.... I\'92ve never borrowed or lent a cent in my\
life. I\'92m sure you understand that....\'94\
\
\'93All right, dont say any more.\'94 Harland got meekly to his feet. \'93Let me\
have a quarter.... I\'92m not so young as I was and I haven\'92t eaten for\
two days,\'94 he mumbled, looking down at his cracked shoes. He put out\
his hand to steady himself by the desk.\
\
Felsius moved back against the wall as if to ward off a blow. He held\
out a fiftycent piece on thick trembling fingers. Harland took it,\
turned without a word and stumbled out through the shop. Felsius pulled\
a violet bordered handkerchief out of his pocket, mopped his brow and\
turned to his letters again.\
\
     We take the liberty of calling the trade\'92s attention\
     to four new superfine Mullen products that we feel the\
     greatest confidence in recommending to our customers as\
     a fresh and absolutely unparalleled departure in the\
     papermanufacturer\'92s art ...\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
They came out of the movie blinking into bright pools of electric\
glare. Cassie watched him stand with his feet apart and eyes absorbed\
lighting a cigar. McAvoy was a stocky man with a beefy neck; he wore a\
single-button coat, a checked vest and a dogshead pin in his brocade\
necktie.\
\
\'93That was a rotton show or I\'92m a Dutchman,\'94 he was growling.\
\
\'93But I loved the twavel pictures, Morris, those Swiss peasants dancing;\
I felt I was wight there.\'94\
\
\'93Damn hot in there.... I\'92d like a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Now Morris you promised,\'94 she whined.\
\
\'93Oh I just meant sodawater, dont get nervous.\'94 \'93Oh that\'92d be lovely.\
I\'92d just love a soda.\'94\
\
\'93Then we\'92ll go for a walk in the Park.\'94\
\
She let the lashes fall over her eyes \'93Allwight Morris,\'94 she whispered\
without looking at him. She put her hand a little tremulously through\
his arm.\
\
\'93If only I wasn\'92t so goddam broke.\'94\
\
\'93I dont care Morris.\'94\
\
\'93I do by God.\'94\
\
At Columbus Circle they went into a drugstore. Girls in green, violet,\
pink summer dresses, young men in straw hats were three deep along the\
sodafountain. She stood back and admiringly watched him shove his way\
through. A man was leaning across the table behind her talking to a\
girl; their faces were hidden by their hatbrims.\
\
\'93You juss tie that bull outside, I said to him, then I resigned.\'94\
\
\'93You mean you were fired.\'94\
\
\'93No honest I resigned before he had a chance.... He\'92s a stinker d\'92you\
know it? I wont take no more of his lip. When I was walkin outa the\
office he called after me.... Young man lemme tell ye sumpen. You wont\
never make good till you learn who\'92s boss around this town, till you\
learn that it aint you.\'94\
\
Morris was holding out a vanilla icecream soda to her. \'93Dreamin\'92 again\
Cassie; anybody\'92d think you was a snowbird.\'94 Smiling brighteyed, she\
took the soda; he was drinking coca-cola. \'93Thank you,\'94 she said. She\
sucked with pouting lips at a spoonful of icecream. \'93Ou Morris it\'92s\
delicious.\'94\
\
The path between round splashes of arclights ducked into darkness.\
Through slant lights and nudging shadows came a smell of dusty leaves\
and trampled grass and occasionally a rift of cool fragrance from damp\
earth under shrubberies.\
\
\'93Oh I love it in the Park,\'94 chanted Cassie. She stifled a belch. \'93D\'92you\
know Morris I oughnt to have eaten that icecweam. It always gives me\
gas.\'94\
\
Morris said nothing. He put his arm round her and held her tight to him\
so that his thigh rubbed against hers as they walked. \'93Well Pierpont\
Morgan is dead.... I wish he\'92d left me a couple of million.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Morris wouldn\'92t it be wonderful? Where\'92d we live? On Central Park\
South.\'94 They stood looking back at the glow of electric signs that came\
from Columbus Circle. To the left they could see curtained lights in\
the windows of a whitefaced apartmenthouse. He looked stealthily to\
the right and left and then kissed her. She twisted her mouth out from\
under his.\
\
\'93Dont.... Somebody might see us,\'94 she whispered breathless. Inside\
something like a dynamo was whirring, whirring. \'93Morris I\'92ve been\
saving it up to tell you. I think Goldweiser\'92s going to give me a\
specialty bit in his next show. He\'92s stagemanager of the second woad\
company and he\'92s got a lot of pull up at the office. He saw me dance\
yesterday.\'94\
\
\'93What did he say?\'94\
\
\'93He said he\'92d fix it up for me to see the big boss Monday.... Oh but\
Morris it\'92s not the sort of thing I want to do, it\'92s so vulgar and\
howid.... I want to do such beautiful things. I feel I\'92ve got it in me,\
something without a name fluttering inside, a bird of beautiful plumage\
in a howid iron cage.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the trouble with you, you\'92ll never make good, you\'92re too\
upstage.\'94 She looked up at him with streaming eyes that glistened in\
the white powdery light of an arclamp.\
\
\'93Oh don\'92t cry for God\'92s sake. I didnt mean anythin.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not upstage with you Morris, am I?\'94 She sniffed and wiped her eyes.\
\
\'93You are kinda, that\'92s what makes me sore. I like my little girl to\
pet me an love me up a little. Hell Cassie life aint all beer an\
sourkraut.\'94 As they walked tightly pressed one to another they felt\
rock under their feet. They were on a little hill of granite outcrop\
with shrubbery all round. The lights from the buildings that hemmed in\
the end of the Park shone in their faces. They stood apart holding\
each other\'92s hands.\
\
\'93Take that redhaired girl up at 105th Street.... I bet she wouldnt be\
upstage when she was alone with a feller.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s a dweadful woman, she dont care what kind of a wep she has....\
Oh I think you\'92re howid.\'94 She began to cry again.\
\
He pulled her to him roughly, pressed her to him hard with his spread\
hands on her back. She felt her legs tremble and go weak. She was\
falling through colored shafts of faintness. His mouth wouldnt let her\
catch her breath.\
\
\'93Look out,\'94 he whispered pulling himself away from her. They walked on\
unsteadily down the path through the shrubbery. \'93I guess it aint.\'94\
\
\'93What Morris?\'94\
\
\'93A cop. God it\'92s hell not havin anywhere to go. Cant we go to your\
room?\'94\
\
\'93But Morris they\'92ll all see us.\'94\
\
\'93Who cares? They all do it in that house.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I hate you when you talk that way.... Weal love is all pure and\
lovely.... Morris you don\'92t love me.\'94\
\
\'93Quit pickin on me cant you Cassie for a minute...? Goddam it\'92s hell to\
be broke.\'94\
\
They sat down on a bench in the light. Behind them automobiles\
slithered with a constant hissing scuttle in two streams along the\
roadway. She put her hand on his knee and he covered it with his big\
stubby hand.\
\
\'93Morris I feel that we are going to be very happy from now on, I feel\
it. You\'92re going to get a fine job, I\'92m sure you are.\'94\
\
\'93I aint so sure.... I\'92m not so young as I was Cassie. I aint got any\
time to lose.\'94\
\
\'93Why you\'92re terribly young, you\'92re only thirtyfive Morris.... And I\
think that something wonderful is going to happen. I\'92m going to get a\
chance to dance.\'94\
\
\'93Why you ought to make more than that redhaired girl.\'94\
\
\'93Elaine Oglethorpe.... She doesnt make so much. But I\'92m different from\
her. I dont care about money; I want to live for my dancing.\'94\
\
\'93I want money. Once you got money you can do what you like.\'94\
\
\'93But Morris dont you believe that you can do anything if you just\
want to hard enough? I believe that.\'94 He edged his free arm round her\
waist. Gradually she let her head fall on his shoulder. \'93Oh I dont\
care,\'94 she whispered with dry lips. Behind them limousines, roadsters,\
touringcars, sedans, slithered along the roadway with snaky glint of\
lights running in two smooth continuous streams.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The brown serge smelled of mothballs as she folded it. She stooped to\
lay it in the trunk; a layer of tissuepaper below rustled when she\
smoothed the wrinkles with her hand. The first violet morning light\
outside the window was making the electriclight bulb grow red like a\
sleepless eye. Ellen straightened herself suddenly and stood stiff with\
her arms at her sides, her face flushed pink. \'93It\'92s just too low,\'94\
she said. She spread a towel over the dresses and piled brushes, a\
handmirror, slippers, chemises, boxes of powder in pellmell on top of\
them. Then she slammed down the lid of the trunk, locked it and put the\
key in her flat alligatorskin purse. She stood looking dazedly about\
the room sucking a broken fingernail. Yellow sunlight was obliquely\
drenching the chimneypots and cornices of the houses across the street.\
She found herself staring at the white E.T.O. at the end of her trunk.\
\'93It\'92s all too terribly disgustingly low,\'94 she said again. Then she\
grabbed a nailfile off the bureau and scratched out the O. \'93Whee,\'94\
she whispered and snapped her fingers. After she had put on a little\
bucketshaped black hat and a veil, so that people wouldn\'92t see she\'92d\
been crying, she piled a lot of books, _Youth\'92s Encounter_, _Thus Spoke\
Zarathustra_, _The Golden Ass_, _Imaginary Conversations_, _Aphrodite_,\
_Chansons de Bilitis_ and the _Oxford Book of French Verse_ in a silk\
shawl and tied them together.\
\
There was a faint tapping at the door. \'93Who\'92s that,\'94 she whispered.\
\
\'93It just me,\'94 came a tearful voice.\
\
Ellen unlocked the door. \'93Why Cassie what\'92s the matter?\'94 Cassie rubbed\
her wet face in the hollow of Ellen\'92s neck. \'93Oh Cassie you\'92re gumming\
my veil.... What on earth\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been up all night thinking how unhappy you must be.\'94\
\
\'93But Cassie I\'92ve never been happier in my life.\'94\
\
\'93Aren\'92t men dweadful?\'94\
\
\'93No.... They are much nicer than women anyway.\'94\
\
\'93Elaine I\'92ve got to tell you something. I know you dont care anything\
about me but I\'92m going to tell you all the same.\'94\
\
\'93Of course I care about you Cassie.... Dont be silly. But I\'92m busy\
now.... Why dont you go back to bed and tell me later?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got to tell you now.\'94 Ellen sat down on her trunk resignedly.\
\'93Elaine I\'92ve bwoken it off with Morris.... Isn\'92t it tewible?\'94 Cassie\
wiped her eyes on the sleeve of her lavender dressinggown and sat down\
beside Ellen on the trunk.\
\
\'93Look dear,\'94 said Ellen gently. \'93Suppose you wait just a second, I\'92m\
going to telephone for a taxi. I want to make a getaway before Jojo\'92s\
up. I\'92m sick of big scenes.\'94 The hall smelled stuffily of sleep and\
massagecream. Ellen talked very low into the receiver. The gruff man\'92s\
voice at the garage growled pleasantly in her ears. \'93Sure right away\
miss.\'94 She tiptoed springily back into the room and closed the door.\
\
\'93I thought he loved me, honestly I did Elaine. Oh men are so dweadful.\
Morris was angwy because I wouldn\'92t live with him. I think it would be\
wicked. I\'92d work my fingers to the bone for him, he knows that. Havent\
I been doing it two years? He said he couldnt go on unless he had me\
weally, you know what he meant, and I said our love was so beautiful\
it could go on for years and years. I could love him for a lifetime\
without even kissing him. Dont you think love should be pure? And then\
he made fun of my dancing and said I was Chalif\'92s mistwess and just\
kidding him along and we quaweled dweadfully and he called me dweadful\
names and went away and said he\'92d never come back.\'94\
\
\'93Dont worry about that Cassie, he\'92ll come back all right.\'94\
\
\'93No but you\'92re so material, Elaine. I mean spiwitually our union is\
bwoken forever. Cant you see there was this beautiful divine spiwitual\
thing between us and it\'92s bwoken.\'94 She began to sob again with her face\
pressed into Ellen\'92s shoulder.\
\
\'93But Cassie I dont see what fun you get out of it all?\'94\
\
\'93Oh you dont understand. You\'92re too young. I was like you at first\
except that I wasnt mawied and didnt wun awound with men. But now I\
want spiwitual beauty. I want to get it through my dancing and my life,\
I want beauty everywhere and I thought Morris wanted it.\'94\
\
\'93But Morris evidently did.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Elaine you\'92re howid, and I love you so much.\'94\
\
Ellen got to her feet. \'93I\'92m going to run downstairs so that the taximan\
wont ring the bell.\'94\
\
\'93But you cant go like this.\'94\
\
\'93You just watch me.\'94 Ellen gathered up the bundle of books in one hand\
and in the other carried the black leather dressingcase. \'93Look Cassie\
will you be a dear and show him the trunk when he comes up to get\
it.... And one other thing, when Stan Emery calls up tell him to call\
me at the Brevoort or at the Lafayette. Thank goodness I didnt deposit\
my money last week.... And Cassie if you find any little odds and ends\
of mine around you just keep em.... Goodby.\'94 She lifted her veil and\
kissed Cassie quickly on the cheeks.\
\
\'93Oh how can you be so bwave as to go away all alone like this....\
You\'92ll let Wuth and me come down to see you wont you? We\'92re so fond of\
you. Oh Elaine you\'92re going to have a wonderful career, I know you are.\'94\
\
\'93And promise not to tell Jojo where I am.... He\'92ll find out soon\
enough anyway.... I\'92ll call him up in a week.\'94\
\
She found the taxidriver in the hall looking at the names above the\
pushbuttons. He went up to fetch her trunk. She settled herself\
happily on the dusty buff seat of the taxi, taking deep breaths of the\
riversmelling morning air. The taxidriver smiled roundly at her when he\
had let the trunk slide off his back onto the dashboard.\
\
\'93Pretty heavy, miss.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a shame you had to carry it all alone.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I kin carry heavier\'92n \'92at.\'94\
\
\'93I want to go to the Hotel Brevoort, Fifth Avenue at about Eighth\
Street.\'94\
\
When he leaned to crank the car the man pushed his hat back on his head\
letting ruddy curly hair out over his eyes. \'93All right I\'92ll take you\
anywhere you like,\'94 he said as he hopped into his seat in the jiggling\
car. When they turned down into the very empty sunlight of Broadway a\
feeling of happiness began to sizzle and soar like rockets inside her.\
The air beat fresh, thrilling in her face. The taxidriver talked back\
at her through the open window.\
\
\'93I thought yous was catchin a train to go away somewhere, miss.\'94\
\
\'93Well I am going away somewhere.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92d be a foine day to be goin away somewhere.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going away from my husband.\'94 The words popped out of her mouth\
before she could stop them.\
\
\'93Did he trow you out?\'94\
\
\'93No I cant say he did that,\'94 she said laughing.\
\
\'93My wife trun me out tree weeks ago.\'94\
\
\'93How was that?\'94\
\
\'93Locked de door when I came home one night an wouldnt let me in. She\'92d\
had the lock changed when I was out workin.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a funny thing to do.\'94\
\
\'93She says I git slopped too often. I aint goin back to her an I aint\
goin to support her no more.... She can put me in jail if she likes.\
I\'92m troo. I\'92m gettin an apartment on Twentysecond Avenoo wid another\
feller an we\'92re goin to git a pianer an live quiet an lay offen the\
skoits.\'94\
\
\'93Matrimony isnt much is it?\'94\
\
\'93You said it. What leads up to it\'92s all right, but gettin married is\
loike de mornin after.\'94\
\
Fifth Avenue was white and empty and swept by a sparkling wind. The\
trees in Madison Square were unexpectedly bright green like ferns in\
a dun room. At the Brevoort a sleepy French nightporter carried her\
baggage. In the low whitepainted room the sunlight drowsed on a faded\
crimson armchair. Ellen ran about the room like a small child kicking\
her heels and clapping her hands. With pursed lips and tilted head she\
arranged her toilet things on the bureau. Then she hung her yellow\
nightgown on a chair and undressed, caught sight of herself in the\
mirror, stood naked looking at herself with her hands on her tiny firm\
appleshaped breasts.\
\
She pulled on her nightgown and went to the phone. \'93Please send up a\
pot of chocolate and rolls to 108 ... as soon as you can please.\'94 Then\
she got into bed. She lay laughing with her legs stretched wide in the\
cool slippery sheets.\
\
Hairpins were sticking into her head. She sat up and pulled them all\
out and shook the heavy coil of her hair down about her shoulders. She\
drew her knees up to her chin and sat thinking. From the street she\
could hear the occasional rumble of a truck. In the kitchens below her\
room a sound of clattering had begun. From all around came a growing\
rumble of traffic beginning. She felt hungry and alone. The bed was\
a raft on which she was marooned alone, always alone, afloat on a\
growling ocean. A shudder went down her spine. She drew her knees up\
closer to her chin.\
\
\
\
\
III. Nine Day\'92s Wonder\
\
          _The sun\'92s moved to Jersey, the sun\'92s behind Hoboken._\
\
          _Covers are clicking on typewriters, rolltop desks are\
          closing; elevators go up empty, come down jammed. It\'92s\
          ebbtide in the downtown district, flood in Flatbush,\
          Woodlawn, Dyckman Street, Sheepshead Bay, New Lots Avenue,\
          Canarsie._\
\
          _Pink sheets, green sheets, gray sheets, FULL MARKET\
          REPORTS, FINALS ON HAVRE DE GRACE. Print squirms among the\
          shopworn officeworn sagging faces, sore fingertips, aching\
          insteps, strongarm men cram into subway expresses. SENATORS\
          8, GIANTS 2, DIVA RECOVERS PEARLS, $800,000 ROBBERY._\
\
          _It\'92s ebbtide on Wall Street, floodtide in the Bronx._\
\
          _The sun\'92s gone down in Jersey._\
\
\
\'93Godamighty,\'94 shouted Phil Sandbourne and pounded with his fist on the\
desk, \'93I don\'92t think so.... A man\'92s morals arent anybody\'92s business.\
It\'92s his work that counts.\'94\
\
\'93Well?\'94\
\
\'93Well I think Stanford White has done more for the city of New York\
that any other man living. Nobody knew there was such a thing as\
architecture before he came.... And to have this Thaw shoot him down in\
cold blood and then get away with it.... By gad if the people of this\
town had the spirit of guineapigs they\'92d----\'94\
\
\'93Phil you\'92re getting all excited over nothing.\'94 The other man took his\
cigar out of his mouth and leaned back in his swivel chair and yawned.\
\
\'93Oh hell I want a vacation. Golly it\'92ll be good to get out in those old\
Maine woods again.\'94\
\
\'93What with Jew lawyers and Irish judges ...\'94 spluttered Phil.\
\
\'93Aw pull the chain, old man.\'94\
\
\'93A fine specimen of a public-spirited citizen you are Hartly.\'94\
\
Hartly laughed and rubbed the palm of his hand over his bald head. \'93Oh\
that stuff\'92s all right in winter, but I cant go it in summer.... Hell\
all I live for is three weeks\'92 vacation anyway. What do I care if all\
the architects in New York get bumped off as long as it dont raise the\
price of commutation to New Rochelle.... Let\'92s go eat.\'94 As they went\
down in the elevator Phil went on talking: \'93The only other man I ever\
knew who was really a born in the bone architect was ole Specker, the\
feller I worked for when I first came north, a fine old Dane he was\
too. Poor devil died o cancer two years ago. Man, he was an architect.\
I got a set of plans and specifications home for what he called a\
communal building.... Seventyfive stories high stepped back in terraces\
with a sort of hanging garden on every floor, hotels, theaters, Turkish\
baths, swimming pools, department stores, heating plant, refrigerating\
and market space all in the same buildin.\'94\
\
\'93Did he eat coke?\'94\
\
\'93No siree he didnt.\'94\
\
They were walking east along Thirtyfourth Street, sparse of people in\
the sultry midday. \'93Gad,\'94 burst out Phil Sandbourne, suddenly. \'93The\
girls in this town get prettier every year. Like these new fashions, do\
you?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. All I wish is that I was gettin younger every year instead of\
older.\'94\
\
\'93Yes about all us old fellers can do is watch em go past.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s fortunate for us or we\'92d have our wives out after us with\
bloodhounds.... Man when I think of those mighthavebeens!\'94\
\
As they crossed Fifth Avenue Phil caught sight of a girl in a taxicab.\
From under the black brim of a little hat with a red cockade in it two\
gray eyes flash green black into his. He swallowed his breath. The\
traffic roars dwindled into distance. She shant take her eyes away.\
Two steps and open the door and sit beside her, beside her slenderness\
perched like a bird on the seat. Driver drive to beat hell. Her lips\
are pouting towards him, her eyes flutter gray caught birds. \'93Hay look\
out....\'94 A pouncing iron rumble crashes down on him from behind. Fifth\
Avenue spins in red blue purple spirals. O Kerist. \'93That\'92s all right,\
let me be. I\'92ll get up myself in a minute.\'94 \'93Move along there. Git\
back there.\'94 Braying voices, blue pillars of policemen. His back, his\
legs are all warm gummy with blood. Fifth Avenue throbs with loudening\
pain. A little bell jinglejangling nearer. As they lift him into the\
ambulance Fifth Avenue shrieks to throttling agony and bursts. He\
cranes his neck to see her, weakly, like a terrapin on its back; didnt\
my eyes snap steel traps on her? He finds himself whimpering. She might\
have stayed to see if I was killed. The jinglejangling bell dwindles\
fainter, fainter into the night.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The burglaralarm across the street had rung on steadily. Jimmy\'92s sleep\
had been strung on it in hard knobs like beads on a string. Knocking\
woke him. He sat up in bed with a lurch and found Stan Emery, his\
face gray with dust, his hands in the pockets of a red leather coat,\
standing at the foot of the bed. He was laughing swaying back and forth\
on the balls of his feet.\
\
\'93Gosh what time is it?\'94 Jimmy sat up in bed digging his knuckles\
into his eyes. He yawned and looked about with bitter dislike, at\
the wallpaper the dead green of Poland Water bottles, at the split\
green shade that let in a long trickle of sunlight, at the marble\
fireplace blocked up by an enameled tin plate painted with scaly roses,\
at the frayed blue bathrobe on the foot of the bed, at the mashed\
cigarette-butts in the mauve glass ashtray.\
\
Stan\'92s face was red and brown and laughing under the chalky mask of\
dust. \'93Eleven thirty,\'94 he was saying.\
\
\'93Let\'92s see that\'92s six hours and a half. I guess that\'92ll do. But Stan\
what the hell are you doing here?\'94\
\
\'93You havent got a little nip of liquor anywhere have you Herf? Dingo\
and I are extraordinarily thirsty. We came all the way from Boston and\
only stopped once for gas and water. I havent been to bed for two days.\
I want to see if I can last out the week.\'94\
\
\'93Kerist I wish I could last out the week in bed.\'94\
\
\'93What you need\'92s a job on a newspaper to keep you busy Herfy.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s going to happen to you Stan ...\'94 Jimmy twisted himself round so\
that he was sitting on the edge of the bed \'93... is that you\'92re going to\
wake up one morning and find yourself on a marble slab at the morgue.\'94\
\
The bathroom smelled of other people\'92s toothpaste and of chloride\
disinfectant. The bathmat was wet and Jimmy folded it into a small\
square before he stepped gingerly out of his slippers. The cold water\
set the blood jolting through him. He ducked his head under and jumped\
out and stood shaking himself like a dog, the water streaming into his\
eyes and ears. Then he put on his bathrobe and lathered his face.\
\
    Flow river flow\
    Down to the sea,\
\
he hummed off key as he scraped his chin with the safety-razor. Mr.\
Grover I\'92m afraid I\'92m going to have to give up the job after next\
week. Yes I\'92m going abroad; I\'92m going to do foreign correspondent work\
for the A. P. To Mexico for the U. P. To Jericho more likely, Halifax\
Correspondent of the Mudturtle Gazette. _It was Christmas in the harem\
and the eunuchs all were there._\
\
    ... from the banks of the Seine\
    To the banks of the Saskatchewan.\
\
He doused his face with listerine, bundled his toilet things into his\
wet towel and smarting ran back up a flight of greencarpeted cabbagy\
stairs and down the hall to his bedroom. Halfway he passed the landlady\
dumpy in a mob cap who stopped her carpet sweeper to give an icy look\
at his skinny bare legs under the blue bathrobe.\
\
\'93Good morning Mrs. Maginnis.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s goin to be powerful hot today, Mr. Herf.\'94\
\
\'93I guess it is all right.\'94\
\
Stan was lying on the bed reading _La Revolte des Anges_. \'93Darn it, I\
wish I knew some languages the way you do Herfy.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I dont know any French any more. I forget em so much quicker than I\
learn em.\'94\
\
\'93By the way I\'92m fired from college.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Dean told me he thought it advisable I shouldnt come back next year\
... felt that there were other fields of activity where my activities\
could be more actively active. You know the crap.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a darn shame.\'94\
\
\'93No it isnt; I\'92m tickled to death. I asked him why he hadnt fired me\
before if he felt that way. Father\'92ll be sore as a crab ... but I\'92ve\
got enough cash on me not to go home for a week. I dont give a damn\
anyway. Honest havent you got any liquor?\'94\
\
\'93Now Stan how\'92s a poor wageslave like myself going to have a cellar on\
thirty dollars a week?\'94\
\
\'93This is a pretty lousy room.... You ought to have been born a\
capitalist like me.\'94\
\
\'93Room\'92s not so bad.... What drives me crazy is that paranoiac alarm\
across the street that rings all night.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a burglar alarm isn\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93There cant be any burglars because the place is vacant. The wires must\
get crossed or something. I dont know when it stopped but it certainly\
drove me wild when I went to bed this morning.\'94\
\
\'93Now James Herf you dont mean me to infer that you come home sober\
every night?\'94\
\
\'93A man\'92d have to be deaf not to hear that damn thing, drunk or sober.\'94\
\
\'93Well in my capacity of bloated bondholder I want you to come out and\
eat lunch. Do you realize that you\'92ve been playing round with your\
toilet for exactly one hour by the clock?\'94\
\
They went down the stairs that smelled of shavingsoap and then of\
brasspolish and then of bacon and then of singed hair and then of\
garbage and coalgas.\
\
\'93You\'92re damn lucky Herfy, never to have gone to college.\'94\
\
\'93Didnt I graduate from Columbia you big cheese, that\'92s more than you\
could do?\'94\
\
The sunlight swooped tingling in Jimmy\'92s face when he opened the door.\
\
\'93That doesnt count.\'94\
\
\'93God I like sun,\'94 cried Jimmy, \'93I wish it\'92d been real Colombia....\'94\
\
\'93Do you mean Hail Columbia?\'94\
\
\'93No I mean Bogota and the Orinoco and all that sort of thing.\'94\
\
\'93I knew a darn good feller went down to Bogota. Had to drink himself to\
death to escape dying of elephantiasis.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d be willing to risk elephantiasis and bubonic plague and spotted\
fever to get out of this hole.\'94\
\
\'93City of orgies walks and joys ...\'94\
\
\'93Orgies nutten, as we say at a hun\'92an toitytoird street.... Do you\
realize that I\'92ve lived all my life in this goddam town except four\
years when I was little and that I was born here and that I\'92m likely to\
die here?... I\'92ve a great mind to join the navy and see the world.\'94\
\
\'93How do you like Dingo in her new coat of paint?\'94\
\
\'93Pretty nifty, looks like a regular Mercedes under the dust.\'94\
\
\'93I wanted to paint her red like a fire engine, but the garageman\
finally persuaded me to paint her blue like a cop.... Do you mind going\
to Mouquin\'92s and having an absinthe cocktail.\'94\
\
\'93Absinthe for breakfast.... Good Lord.\'94\
\
They drove west along Twenty-third Street that shone with sheets\
of reflected light off windows, oblong glints off delivery wagons,\
figureeight-shaped flash of nickel fittings.\
\
\'93How\'92s Ruth, Jimmy?\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s all right. She hasnt got a job yet.\'94\
\
\'93Look there\'92s a Daimlier.\'94\
\
Jimmy grunted vaguely. As they turned up Sixth Avenue a policeman\
stopped them.\
\
\'93Your cut out,\'94 he yelled.\
\
\'93I\'92m on my way to the garage to get it fixed. Muffler\'92s coming off.\'94\
\
\'93Better had.... Get a ticket another time.\'94\
\
\'93Gee you get away with murder Stan ... in everything,\'94 said Jimmy. \'93I\
never can get away with a thing even if I am three years older than\
you.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a gift.\'94\
\
The restaurant smelled merrily of fried potatoes and cocktails and\
cigars and cocktails. It was hot and full of talking and sweaty faces.\
\
\'93But Stan dont roll your eyes romantically when you ask about Ruth and\
me.... We\'92re just very good friends.\'94\
\
\'93Honestly I didnt mean anything, but I\'92m sorry to hear it all the same.\
I think it\'92s terrible.\'94\
\
\'93Ruth doesn\'92t care about anything but her acting. She\'92s so crazy to\
succeed, she cuts out everything else.\'94\
\
\'93Why the hell does everybody want to succeed? I\'92d like to meet somebody\
who wanted to fail. That\'92s the only sublime thing.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right if you have a comfortable income.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all bunk.... Golly this is some cocktail. Herfy I think you\'92re\
the only sensible person in this town. You have no ambitions.\'94\
\
\'93How do you know I havent?\'94\
\
\'93But what can you do with success when you get it? You cant eat it or\
drink it. Of course I understand that people who havent enough money\
to feed their faces and all that should scurry round and get it. But\
success ...\'94\
\
\'93The trouble with me is I cant decide what I want most, so my motion is\
circular, helpless and confoundedly discouraging.\'94\
\
\'93Oh but God decided that for you. You know all the time, but you wont\
admit it to yourself.\'94\
\
\'93I imagine what I want most is to get out of this town, preferably\
first setting off a bomb under the Times Building.\'94\
\
\'93Well why don\'92t you do it? It\'92s just one foot after another.\'94\
\
\'93But you have to know which direction to step.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the last thing that\'92s of any importance.\'94\
\
\'93Then there\'92s money.\'94\
\
\'93Why money\'92s the easiest thing in the world to get.\'94\
\
\'93For the eldest son of Emery and Emery.\'94\
\
\'93Now Herf it\'92s not fair to cast my father\'92s iniquities in my face. You\
know I hate that stuff as much as you do.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not blaming you Stan; you\'92re a damn lucky kid, that\'92s all. Of\
course I\'92m lucky too, a hell of a lot luckier than most. My mother\'92s\
leftover money supported me until I was twentytwo and I still have a\
few hundreds stowed away for that famous rainy day, and my uncle, curse\
his soul, gets me new jobs when I get fired.\'94\
\
\'93Baa baa black sheep.\'94\
\
\'93I guess I\'92m really afraid of my uncles and aunts.... You ought to see\
my cousin James Merivale. Has done everything he was told all his life\
and flourished like a green bay tree.... The perfect wise virgin.\'94\
\
\'93Ah guess youse one o dem dere foolish virgins.\'94\
\
\'93Stan you\'92re feeling your liquor, you\'92re beginning to talk niggertalk.\'94\
\
\'93Baa baa.\'94 Stan put down his napkin and leaned back laughing in his\
throat.\
\
The smell of absinthe sicklytingling grew up like the magician\'92s\
rosebush out of Jimmy\'92s glass. He sipped it wrinkling his nose. \'93As a\
moralist I protest,\'94 he said. \'93Whee it\'92s amazing.\'94\
\
\'93What I need is a whiskey and soda to settle those cocktails.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll watch you. I\'92m a working man. I must be able to tell between the\
news that\'92s fit and the news that\'92s not fit.... God I dont want to\
start talking about that. It\'92s all so criminally silly.... I\'92ll say\
that this cocktail sure does knock you for a loop.\'94\
\
\'93You neednt think you\'92re going to do anything else but drink this\
afternoon. There\'92s somebody I want to introduce you to.\'94\
\
\'93And I was going to sit down righteously and write an article.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Oh a dodaddle called Confessions of a Cub Reporter.\'94\
\
\'93Look is this Thursday?\'94\
\
\'93Yare.\'94\
\
\'93Then I know where she\'92ll be.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to light out of it all,\'94 said Jimmy somberly, \'93and go to\
Mexico and make my fortune.... I\'92m losing all the best part of my life\
rotting in New York.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92ll you make your fortune?\'94\
\
\'93Oil, gold, highway robbery, anything so long as it\'92s not newspaper\
work.\'94\
\
\'93Baa baa black sheep baa baa.\'94\
\
\'93You quit baaing at me.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s get the hell out of here and take Dingo to have her muffler\
fastened.\'94\
\
Jimmy stood waiting in the door of the reeking garage. The dusty\
afternoon sunlight squirmed in bright worms of heat on his face and\
hands. Brownstone, redbrick, asphalt flickering with red and green\
letters of signs, with bits of paper in the gutter rotated in a slow\
haze about him. Two carwashers talking behind him:\
\
\'93Yep I was making good money until I went after that lousy broad.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll say she\'92s a goodlooker, Charley. I should worry.... Dont make no\
difference after the first week.\'94\
\
Stan came up behind him and ran him along the street by the shoulders.\
\'93Car wont be fixed until five o\'92clock. Let\'92s taxi.... Hotel\
Lafayette,\'94 he shouted at the driver and slapped Jimmy on the knee.\
\'93Well Herfy old fossil, you know what the Governor of North Carolina\
said to the Governor of South Carolina.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a long time between drinks.\'94\
\
\'93Baa, baa,\'94 Stan was bleating under his breath as they stormed into\
the caf\'e9. \'93Ellie here are the black sheep,\'94 he shouted laughing. His\
face froze suddenly stiff. Opposite Ellen at the table sat her husband,\
one eyebrow lifted very high and the other almost merging with the\
eyelashes. A teapot sat impudently between them.\
\
\'93Hello Stan, sit down,\'94 she said quietly. Then she continued smiling\
into Oglethorpe\'92s face. \'93Isnt that wonderful Jojo?\'94\
\
\'93Ellie this is Mr. Herf,\'94 said Stan gruffly.\
\
\'93Oh I\'92m so glad to meet you. I used to hear about you up at Mrs.\
Sunderland\'92s.\'94\
\
They were silent. Oglethorpe was tapping on the table with his spoon.\
\'93Why heow deo you deo Mr. Herf,\'94 he said with sudden unction. \'93Dont you\
remember how we met?\'94\
\
\'93By the way how\'92s everything up there Jojo?\'94\
\
\'93Just topping thanks. Cassahndrah\'92s beau has left her and there\'92s been\
the most appalling scandal about that Costello creature. It seems\
that she came home foxed the other night, to the ears my deah, and\
tried to take the taxi driver into her room with her, and the poor boy\
protesting all the time that all he wanted was his fare.... It was\
appalling.\'94\
\
Stan got stiffly to his feet and walked out.\
\
The three of them sat without speaking. Jimmy tried to keep from\
fidgeting in his chair. He was about to get up when something\
velvetsoft in her eyes stopped him.\
\
\'93Has Ruth got a job yet, Mr. Herf?\'94 she asked.\
\
\'93No she hasnt.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s the rottenest luck.\'94\
\
\'93Oh it\'92s a darn shame. I know she can act. The trouble is she has too\
much sense of humor to play up to managers and people.\'94\
\
\'93Oh the stage is a nasty dirty game, isn\'92t it Jojo?\'94\
\
\'93The nawstiest, my deah.\'94\
\
Jimmy couldn\'92t keep his eyes off her; her small squarely shaped hands,\
her neck molded with a gold sheen between the great coil of coppery\
hair and the bright blue dress.\
\
\'93Well my deah ...\'94 Oglethorpe got to his feet.\
\
\'93Jojo I\'92m going to sit here a little longer.\'94\
\
Jimmy was staring at the thin triangles of patent leather that stuck\
out from Oglethorpe\'92s pink buff spats. Cant be feet in them. He stood\
up suddenly.\
\
\'93Now Mr. Herf couldnt you keep me company for fifteen minutes? I\'92ve got\
to leave here at six and I forgot to bring a book and I cant walk in\
these shoes.\'94\
\
Jimmy blushed and sat down again stammering: \'93Why of course I\'92d be\
delighted.... Suppose we drink something.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll finish my tea, but why dont you have a gin fizz? I love to see\
people drink gin fizzes. It makes me feel that I\'92m in the tropics\
sitting in a jujube grove waiting for the riverboat to take us up some\
ridiculous melodramatic river all set about with fevertrees.\'94\
\
\'93Waiter I want a gin fizz please.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Joe Harland had slumped down in his chair until his head rested on\
his arms. Between his grimestiff hands his eyes followed uneasily the\
lines in the marbletop table. The gutted lunchroom was silent under the\
sparse glower of two bulbs hanging over the counter where remained a\
few pies under a bellglass, and a man in a white coat nodding on a tall\
stool. Now and then the eyes in his gray doughy face flicked open and\
he grunted and looked about. At the last table over were the hunched\
shoulders of men asleep, faces crumpled like old newspapers pillowed\
on arms. Joe Harland sat up straight and yawned. A woman blobby under\
a raincoat with a face red and purplish streaked like rancid meat was\
asking for a cup of coffee at the counter. Carrying the mug carefully\
between her two hands she brought it over to the table and sat down\
opposite him. Joe Harland let his head down onto his arms again.\
\
\'93Hay yous how about a little soivice?\'94 The woman\'92s voice shrilled in\
Harland\'92s ears like the screech of chalk on a blackboard.\
\
\'93Well what d\'92ye want?\'94 snarled the man behind the counter. The woman\
started sobbing. \'93He asts me what I want.... I aint used to bein talked\
to brutal.\'94\
\
\'93Well if there\'92s anythin you want you kin juss come an git it....\
Soivice at this toime o night!\'94\
\
Harland could smell her whiskey breath as she sobbed. He raised his\
head and stared at her. She twisted her flabby mouth into a smile and\
bobbed her head towards him.\
\
\'93Mister I aint accustomed to bein treated brutal. If my husband was\
aloive he wouldn\'92t have the noive. Who\'92s the loikes o him to say what\
toime o night a lady ought to have soivice, the little shriveled up\
shrimp.\'94 She threw back her head and laughed so that her hat fell off\
backwards. \'93That\'92s what he is, a little shriveled up shrimp, insultin a\
lady with his toime o night.\'94\
\
Some strands of gray hair with traces of henna at the tips had fallen\
down about her face. The man in the white coat walked over to the table.\
\
\'93Look here Mother McCree I\'92ll trow ye out o here if you raise any more\
distoirbance.... What do you want?\'94\
\
\'93A nickel\'92s woirt o doughnuts,\'94 she sniveled with a sidelong leer at\
Harland.\
\
Joe Harland shoved his face into the hollow of his arm again and tried\
to go to sleep. He heard the plate set down followed by her toothless\
nibbling and an occasional sucking noise when she drank the coffee. A\
new customer had come in and was talking across the counter in a low\
growling voice.\
\
\'93Mister, mister aint it terrible to want a drink?\'94 He raised his head\
again and found her eyes the blurred blue of watered milk looking into\
his. \'93What ye goin to do now darlin?\'94\
\
\'93God knows.\'94\
\
\'93Virgin an Saints it\'92d be noice to have a bed an a pretty lace shimmy\
and a noice feller loike you darlin ... mister.\'94\
\
\'93Is that all?\'94\
\
\'93Oh mister if my poor husband was aloive, he wouldn\'92t let em treat me\
loike they do. I lost my husband on the _General Slocum_ might ha been\
yesterday.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s not so unlucky.\'94\
\
\'93But he doid in his sin without a priest, darlin. It\'92s terrible to die\
in yer sin ...\'94\
\
\'93Oh hell I want to sleep.\'94\
\
Her voice went on in a faint monotonous screech setting his teeth on\
edge. \'93The Saints has been agin me ever since I lost my husband on the\
_General Slocum_. I aint been an honest woman.\'94 ... She began to sob\
again. \'93The Virgin and Saints an Martyrs is agin me, everybody\'92s agin\
me.... Oh wont somebody treat me noice.\'94\
\
\'93I want to sleep.... Cant you shut up?\'94\
\
She stooped and fumbled for her hat on the floor. She sat sobbing\
rubbing her swollen redgrimed knuckles into her eyes.\
\
\'93Oh mister dont ye want to treat me noice?\'94\
\
Joe Harland got to his feet breathing hard. \'93Goddam you cant you shut\
up?\'94 His voice broke into a whine. \'93Isnt there anywhere you can get a\
little peace? There\'92s nowhere you can get any peace.\'94 He pulled his cap\
over his eyes, shoved his hands down into his pockets and shambled out\
of the lunchroom. Over Chatham Square the sky was brightening redviolet\
through the latticework of elevated tracks. The lights were two rows of\
bright brass knobs up the empty Bowery.\
\
A policeman passed swinging his nightstick. Joe Harland felt the\
policeman\'92s eyes on him. He tried to walk fast and briskly as if he\
were going somewhere on business.\
\
\'93Well Miss Oglethorpe how do you like it?\'94\
\
\'93Like what?\'94\
\
\'93Oh you know ... being a nine days\'92 wonder.\'94\
\
\'93Why I don\'92t know at all Mr. Goldweiser.\'94\
\
\'93Women know everything but they wont let on.\'94\
\
Ellen sits in a gown of nilegreen silk in a springy armchair at the\
end of a long room jingling with talk and twinkle of chandeliers and\
jewelry, dotted with the bright moving black of evening clothes and\
silveredged colors of women\'92s dresses. The curve of Harry Goldweiser\'92s\
nose merges directly into the curve of his bald forehead, his big rump\
bulges over the edges of a triangular gilt stool, his small brown\
eyes measure her face like antenn\'e6 as he talks to her. A woman nearby\
smells of sandalwood. A woman with orange lips and a chalk face under\
an orange turban passes talking to a man with a pointed beard. A\
hawk-beaked woman with crimson hair puts her hand on a man\'92s shoulder\
from behind. \'93Why how do you do, Miss Cruikshank; it\'92s surprising\
isn\'92t it how everybody in the world is always at the same place at the\
same time.\'94 Ellen sits in the armchair drowsily listening, coolness of\
powder on her face and arms, fatness of rouge on her lips, her body\
just bathed fresh as a violet under the silk dress, under the silk\
underclothes; she sits dreamily, drowsily listening. A sudden twinge of\
men\'92s voices knotting about her. She sits up cold white out of reach\
like a lighthouse. Men\'92s hands crawl like bugs on the unbreakable\
glass. Men\'92s looks blunder and flutter against it helpless as moths.\
But in deep pitblackness inside something clangs like a fire engine.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
George Baldwin stood beside the breakfast table with a copy of the New\
York _Times_ folded in his hand. \'93Now Cecily,\'94 he was saying \'93we must\
be sensible about these things.\'94\
\
\'93Cant you see that I\'92m trying to be sensible?\'94 she said in a jerking\
snivelly voice. He stood looking at her without sitting down rolling\
a corner of the paper between his finger and thumb. Mrs. Baldwin was\
a tall woman with a mass of carefully curled chestnut hair piled on\
top of her head. She sat before the silver coffeeservice fingering the\
sugarbowl with mushroomwhite fingers that had very sharp pink nails.\
\
\'93George I cant stand it any more that\'92s all.\'94 She pressed her quaking\
lips hard together.\
\
\'93But my dear you exaggerate....\'94\
\
\'93How exaggerate?... It means our life has been a pack of lies.\'94\
\
\'93But Cecily we\'92re fond of each other.\'94\
\
\'93You married me for my social position, you know it.... I was fool\
enough to fall in love with you. All right, It\'92s over.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not true. I really loved you. Dont you remember how terrible you\
thought it was you couldnt really love me?\'94\
\
\'93You brute to refer to that.... Oh it\'92s horrible!\'94\
\
The maid came in from the pantry with bacon and eggs on a tray. They\
sat silent looking at each other. The maid swished out of the room and\
closed the door. Mrs. Baldwin put her forehead down on the edge of the\
table and began to cry. Baldwin sat staring at the headlines in the\
paper. ASSASSINATION OF ARCHDUKE WILL HAVE GRAVE CONSEQUENCES. AUSTRIAN\
ARMY MOBILIZED. He went over and put his hand on her crisp hair.\
\
\'93Poor old Cecily,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Dont touch me.\'94\
\
She ran out of the room with her handkerchief to her face. He sat down,\
helped himself to bacon and eggs and toast and began to eat; everything\
tasted like paper. He stopped eating to scribble a note on a scratchpad\
he kept in his breast pocket behind his handkerchief: See Collins vs.\
Arbuthnot, N.Y.S.C. Appel. Div.\
\
The sound of a step in the hall outside caught his ear, the click of\
a latch. The elevator had just gone down. He ran four flights down\
the steps. Through the glass and wrought-iron doors of the vestibule\
downstairs he caught sight of her on the curb, standing tall and stiff,\
pulling on her gloves. He rushed out and took her by the hand just as a\
taxi drove up. Sweat beaded on his forehead and was prickly under his\
collar. He could see himself standing there with the napkin ridiculous\
in his hand and the colored doorman grinning and saying, \'93Good mornin,\
Mr. Baldwin, looks like it going to be a fine day.\'94 Gripping her hand\
tight, he said in a low voice through his teeth:\
\
\'93Cecily there\'92s something I want to talk to you about. Wont you wait\
a minute and we\'92ll go downtown together?... Wait about five minutes\
please,\'94 he said to the taxidriver. \'93We\'92ll be right down.\'94 Squeezing\
her wrist hard he walked back with her to the elevator. When they stood\
in the hall of their own apartment, she suddenly looked him straight in\
the face with dry blazing eyes.\
\
\'93Come in here Cecily\'94 he said gently. He closed their bedroom door and\
locked it. \'93Now lets talk this over quietly. Sit down dear.\'94 He put a\
chair behind her. She sat down suddenly stiffly like a marionette.\
\
\'93Now look here Cecily you have no right to talk the way you do about my\
friends. Mrs. Oglethorpe is a friend of mine. We occasionally take tea\
together in some perfectly public place and that\'92s all. I would invite\
her up here but I\'92ve been afraid you would be rude to her.... You\
cant go on giving away to your insane jealousy like this. I allow you\
complete liberty and trust you absolutely. I think I have the right to\
expect the same confidence from you.... Cecily do be my sensible little\
girl again. You\'92ve been listening to what a lot of old hags fabricate\
out of whole cloth maliciously to make you miserable.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s not the only one.\'94\
\
\'93Cecily I admit frankly there were times soon after we were married ...\
when ... But that\'92s all over years ago.... And who\'92s fault was it?...\
Oh Cecily a woman like you cant understand the physical urgences of a\
man like me.\'94\
\
\'93Havent I done my best?\'94\
\
\'93My dear these things arent anybody\'92s fault.... I dont blame you.... If\
you\'92d really loved me then ...\'94\
\
\'93What do you think I stay in this hell for except for you? Oh you\'92re\
such a brute.\'94 She sat dryeyed staring at her feet in their gray\
buckskin slippers, twisting and untwisting in her fingers the wet\
string of her handkerchief.\
\
\'93Look here Cecily a divorce would be very harmful to my situation\
downtown just at the moment, but if you really dont want to go on\
living with me I\'92ll see what I can arrange.... But in any event you\
must have more confidence in me. You know I\'92m fond of you. And for\
God\'92s sake dont go to see anybody about it without consulting me. You\
dont want a scandal and headlines in the papers, do you?\'94\
\
\'93All right ... leave me alone.... I dont care about anything.\'94\
\
\'93All right.... I\'92m pretty late. I\'92ll go on downtown in that taxi. You\
don\'92t want to come shopping or anything?\'94\
\
She shook her head. He kissed her on the forehead, took his straw hat\
and stick in the hall and hurried out.\
\
\'93Oh I\'92m the most miserable woman,\'94 she groaned and got to her feet. Her\
head ached as if it were bound with hot wire. She went to the window\
and leaned out into the sunlight. Across Park Avenue the flameblue sky\
was barred with the red girder cage of a new building. Steam riveters\
rattled incessantly; now and then a donkeyengine whistled and there was\
a jingle of chains and a fresh girder soared crosswise in the air. Men\
in blue overalls moved about the scaffolding. Beyond to the northwest a\
shining head of clouds soared blooming compactly like a cauliflower. Oh\
if it would only rain. As the thought came to her there was a low growl\
of thunder above the din of building and of traffic. Oh if it would\
only rain.\
\
Ellen had just hung a chintz curtain in the window to hide with its\
blotchy pattern of red and purple flowers the vista of desert backyards\
and brick flanks of downtown houses. In the middle of the bare room was\
a boxcouch cumbered with teacups, a copper chafingdish and percolator;\
the yellow hardwood floor was littered with snippings of chintz and\
curtainpins; books, dresses, bedlinen cascaded from a trunk in the\
corner; from a new mop in the fireplace exuded a smell of cedar oil.\
Ellen was leaning against the wall in a daffodilcolored kimono looking\
happily about the big shoebox-shaped room when the buzzer startled her.\
She pushed a rope of hair up off her forehead and pressed the button\
that worked the latch. There was a little knock on the door. A woman\
was standing in the dark of the hall.\
\
\'93Why Cassie I couldn\'92t make out who you were. Come in.... What\'92s the\
matter?\'94\
\
\'93You are sure I\'92m not intwuding?\'94\
\
\'93Of course not.\'94 Ellen leaned to give her a little pecking kiss.\
Cassandra Wilkins was very pale and there was a nervous quiver about\
her eyelids. \'93You can give me some advice. I\'92m just getting my curtains\
up.... Look do you think that purple goes all right with the gray wall?\
It looks kind of funny to me.\'94\
\
\'93I think it\'92s beautiful. What a beautiful woom. How happy you\'92re going\
to be here.\'94\
\
\'93Put that chafingdish down on the floor and sit down. I\'92ll make some\
tea. There\'92s a kind of bathroom kitchenette in the alcove there.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re sure it wouldn\'92t be too much twouble?\'94\
\
\'93Of course not.... But Cassie what\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93Oh everything.... I came down to tell you but I cant. I cant ever tell\
anybody.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m so excited about this apartment. Imagine Cassie it\'92s the first\
place of my own I ever had in my life. Daddy wants me to live with him\
in Passaic, but I just felt I couldn\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93And what does Mr. Oglethorpe...? Oh but that\'92s impertinent of me....\
Do forgive me Elaine. I\'92m almost cwazy. I don\'92t know what I\'92m saying.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Jojo\'92s a dear. He\'92s even going to let me divorce him if I want\
to.... Would you if you were me?\'94 Without waiting for an answer she\
disappeared between the folding doors. Cassie remained hunched up on\
the edge of the couch.\
\
Ellen came back with a blue teapot in one hand and a pan of steaming\
water in the other. \'93Do you mind not having lemon or cream? There\'92s\
some sugar on the mantelpiece. These cups are clean because I just\
washed them. Dont you think they are pretty? Oh you cant imagine\
how wonderful and domestic it makes you feel to have a place all to\
yourself. I hate living in a hotel. Honestly this place makes me just\
so domestic ... Of course the ridiculous thing is that I\'92ll probably\
have to give it up or sublet as soon as I\'92ve got it decently fixed up.\
Show\'92s going on the road in three weeks. I want to get out of it but\
Harry Goldweiser wont let me.\'94 Cassie was taking little sips of tea out\
of her spoon. She began to cry softly. \'93Why Cassie buck up, what\'92s the\
matter?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, you\'92re so lucky in everything Elaine and I\'92m so miserable.\'94\
\
\'93Why I always thought it was my jinx that got the beautyprize, but what\
is the matter?\'94\
\
Cassie put down her cup and pushed her two clenched hands into her\
neck. \'93It\'92s just this,\'94 she said in a strangled voice.... \'93I think I\'92m\
going to have a baby.\'94 She put her head down on her knees and sobbed.\
\
\'93Are you sure? Everybody\'92s always having scares.\'94\
\
\'93I wanted our love to be always pure and beautiful, but he said he\'92d\
never see me again if I didn\'92t ... and I hate him.\'94 She shook the words\
out one by one between tearing sobs.\
\
\'93Why don\'92t you get married?\'94\
\
\'93I cant. I wont. It would interfere.\'94\
\
\'93How long since you knew?\'94\
\
\'93Oh it must have been ten days ago easily. I know it\'92s that ... I dont\
want to have anything but my dancing.\'94 She stopped sobbing and began\
taking little sips of tea again.\
\
Ellen walked back and forth in front of the fireplace. \'93Look here\
Cassie there\'92s no use getting all wrought up over things, is there? I\
know a woman who\'92ll help you.... Do pull yourself together please.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I couldn\'92t, I couldn\'92t.\'94 ... The saucer slid off her knees and\
broke in two on the floor. \'93Tell me Elaine have you ever been through\
this?... Oh I\'92m so sowy. I\'92ll buy you another saucer Elaine.\'94 She got\
totteringly to her feet and put the cup and spoon on the mantelpiece.\
\
\'93Oh of course I have. When we were first married I had a terrible\
time....\'94\
\
\'93Oh Elaine isn\'92t it hideous all this? Life would be so beautiful and\
free and natural without it.... I can feel the howor of it cweeping up\
on me, killing me.\'94\
\
\'93Things are rather like that,\'94 said Ellen gruffly.\
\
Cassie was crying again. \'93Men are so bwutal and selfish.\'94\
\
\'93Have another cup of tea, Cassie.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I couldn\'92t. My dear I feel a deadly nausea.... Oh I think I\'92m going\
to be sick.\'94\
\
\'93The bathroom is right through the folding doors and to the left.\'94\
\
Ellen walked up and down the room with clenched teeth. I hate women. I\
hate women.\
\
After a while Cassie came back into the room, her face greenish white,\
dabbing her forehead with a washrag.\
\
\'93Here lie down here you poor kid,\'94 said Ellen clearing a space on the\
couch. \'93... Now you\'92ll feel much better.\'94\
\
\'93Oh will you ever forgive me for causing all this twouble?\'94\
\
\'93Just lie still a minute and forget everything.\'94\
\
\'93Oh if I could only relax.\'94\
\
Ellen\'92s hands were cold. She went to the window and looked out. A\
little boy in a cowboy suit was running about the yard waving an end\
of clothesline. He tripped and fell. Ellen could see his face puckered\
with tears as he got to his feet again. In the yard beyond a stumpy\
woman with black hair was hanging out clothes. Sparrows were chirping\
and fighting on the fence.\
\
\'93Elaine dear could you let me have a little powder? I\'92ve lost my vanity\
case.\'94\
\
She turned back into the room. \'93I think.... Yes there\'92s some on the\
mantelpiece.... Do you feel better now Cassie?\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes,\'94 said Cassie in a trembly voice. \'93And have you got a lipstick?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m awfully sorry.... I\'92ve never worn any street makeup. I\'92ll have\
to soon enough if I keep on acting.\'94 She went into the alcove to take\
off her kimono, slipped on a plain green dress, coiled up her hair\
and pushed a small black hat down over it. \'93Let\'92s run along Cassie. I\
want to have something to eat at six.... I hate bolting my dinner five\
minutes before a performance.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I\'92m so tewified.... Pwomise you wont leave me alone.\'94\
\
\'93Oh she wouldnt do anything today.... She\'92ll just look you over and\
maybe give you something to take.... Let\'92s see, have I got my key?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll have to take a taxi. And my dear I\'92ve only got six dollars in\
the world.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll make daddy give me a hundred dollars to buy furniture. That\'92ll be\
all right.\'94\
\
\'93Elaine you\'92re the most angelic cweature in the world.... You deserve\
every bit of your success.\'94\
\
At the corner of Sixth Avenue they got into a taxi.\
\
Cassie\'92s teeth were chattering. \'93Please let\'92s go another time. I\'92m too\
fwightened to go now.\'94\
\
\'93My dear child it\'92s the only thing to do.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Joe Harland, puffing on his pipe, pulled to and bolted the wide quaking\
board gates. A last splash of garnet-colored sunlight was fading on the\
tall housewall across the excavation. Blue arms of cranes stood out\
dark against it. Harland\'92s pipe had gone out, he stood puffing at it\
with his back to the gate looking at the files of empty wheelbarrows,\
the piles of picks and shovels, the little shed for the donkeyengine\
and the steam drills that sat perched on a split rock like a\
mountaineer\'92s shack. It seemed to him peaceful in spite of the rasp of\
traffic from the street that seeped through the hoarding. He went into\
the leanto by the gate where the telephone was, sat down in the chair,\
knocked out, filled and lit his pipe and spread the newspaper out on\
his knees. CONTRACTORS PLAN LOCKOUT TO ANSWER BUILDERS\'92 STRIKE. He\
yawned and threw back his head. The light was too blue-dim to read. He\
sat a long time staring at the stub scarred toes of his boots. His mind\
was a fuzzy comfortable blank. Suddenly he saw himself in a dress-suit\
wearing a top hat with an orchid in his buttonhole. The Wizard of Wall\
Street looked at the lined red face and the gray hair under the mangy\
cap and the big hands with their grimy swollen knuckles and faded with\
a snicker. He remembered faintly the smell of a Corona-Corona as he\
reached into the pocket of the peajacket for a can of Prince Albert\
to refill his pipe. \'93What dif does it make I\'92d like to know?\'94 he said\
aloud. When he lit a match the night went suddenly inky all round. He\
blew out the match. His pipe was a tiny genial red volcano that made\
a discreet cluck each time he pulled on it. He smoked very slowly\
inhaling deep. The tall buildings all round were haloed with ruddy\
glare from streets and electriclight signs. Looking straight up through\
glimmering veils of reflected light he could see the blueblack sky and\
stars. The tobacco was sweet. He was very happy.\
\
A glowing cigarend crossed the door of the shack. Harland grabbed his\
lantern and went out. He held the lantern up in the face of a blond\
young man with a thick nose and lips and a cigar in the side of his\
mouth.\
\
\'93How did you get in here?\'94\
\
\'93Side door was open.\'94\
\
\'93The hell it was? Who are you looking for?\'94\
\
\'93You the night watchman round here?\'94 Harland nodded. \'93Glad to meet\
yez.... Have a cigar. I jus wanted to have a little talk wid ye,\
see?... I\'92m organizer for Local 47, see? Let\'92s see your card.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not a union man.\'94\
\
\'93Well ye\'92re goin to be aint ye.... Us guys of the buildin trades have\
got to stick together. We\'92re tryin to get every bloke from night\
watchmen to inspectors lined up to make a solid front against this here\
lockout sitooation.\'94\
\
Harland lit his cigar. \'93Look here, bo, you\'92re wasting your breath on\
me. They\'92ll always need a watchman, strike or no strike.... I\'92m an old\
man and I havent got much fight left in me. This is the first decent\
job I\'92ve had in five years and they\'92ll have to shoot me to get it away\
from me.... All that stuff\'92s for kids like you. I\'92m out of it. You sure\
are wasting your breath if you\'92re going round trying to organize night\
watchmen.\'94\
\
\'93Say you don\'92t talk like you\'92d always been in this kind o woik.\'94\
\
\'93Well maybe I aint.\'94\
\
The young man took off his hat and rubbed his hand over his forehead\
and up across his dense cropped hair. \'93Hell it\'92s warm work arguin....\
Swell night though aint it?\'94\
\
\'93Oh the night\'92s all right,\'94 said Harland.\
\
\'93Say my name\'92s O\'92Keefe, Joe O\'92Keefe.... Gee I bet you could tell a guy\
a lot o things.\'94 He held out his hand.\
\
\'93My name\'92s Joe too ... Harland.... Twenty years ago that name meant\
something to people.\'94\
\
\'93Twenty years from now ...\'94\
\
\'93Say you\'92re a funny fellow for a walking delegate.... You take an old\
man\'92s advice before I run you off the lot, and quit it.... It\'92s no game\
for a likely young feller who wants to make his way in the world.\'94\
\
\'93Times are changin you know.... There\'92s big fellers back o this here\
strike, see? I was talkin over the sitooation with Assemblyman McNiel\
jus this afternoon in his office.\'94\
\
\'93But I\'92m telling you straight if there\'92s one thing that\'92ll queer you in\
this town it\'92s this labor stuff.... You\'92ll remember someday that an\
old drunken bum told you that and it\'92ll be too late.\'94\
\
\'93Oh it was drink was it? That\'92s one thing I\'92m not afraid of. I don\'92t\
touch the stuff, except beer to be sociable.\'94\
\
\'93Look here bo the company detective\'92ll be makin his rounds soon. You\'92d\
better be making tracks.\'94\
\
\'93I ain\'92t ascared of any goddam company detective.... Well so long I\'92ll\
come in to see you again someday.\'94\
\
\'93Close that door behind you.\'94\
\
Joe Harland drew a little water from a tin container, settled himself\
in his chair and stretched his arms out and yawned. Eleven o\'92clock.\
They would just be getting out of the theaters, men in eveningclothes,\
girls in lowneck dresses; men were going home to their wives and\
mistresses; the city was going to bed. Taxis honked and rasped outside\
the hoarding, the sky shimmered with gold powder from electric signs.\
He dropped the butt of the cigar and crushed it on the floor with his\
heel. He shuddered and got to his feet, then paced slowly round the\
edge of the buildinglot swinging his lantern.\
\
The light from the street yellowed faintly a big sign on which was a\
picture of a skyscraper, white with black windows against blue sky\
and white clouds. SEGAL AND HAYNES will erect on this site a modern\
uptodate TWENTYFOUR STORY OFFICE BUILDING open for occupancy January\
1915 renting space still available inquire....\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Jimmy Herf sat reading on a green couch under a bulb that lit up a\
corner of a wide bare room. He had come to the death of Olivier in\
_Jean Christophe_ and read with tightening gullet. In his memory\
lingered the sound of the Rhine swirling, restlessly gnawing the foot\
of the garden of the house where Jean Christophe was born. Europe was a\
green park in his mind full of music and red flags and mobs marching.\
Occasionally the sound of a steamboat whistle from the river settled\
breathless snowysoft into the room. From the street came a rattle of\
taxis and the whining sound of streetcars.\
\
There was a knock at the door. Jimmy got up, his eyes blurred and hot\
from reading.\
\
\'93Hello Stan, where the devil did you come from?\'94\
\
\'93Herfy I\'92m tight as a drum.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s no novelty.\'94\
\
\'93I was just giving you the weather report.\'94\
\
\'93Well perhaps you can tell me why in this country nobody ever does\
anything. Nobody ever writes any music or starts any revolutions or\
falls in love. All anybody ever does is to get drunk and tell smutty\
stories. I think it\'92s disgusting....\'94\
\
\'93\'92Ear, \'92ear.... But speak for yourself. I\'92m going to stop drinking....\
No good drinking, liquor just gets monotonous.... Say, got a bathtub?\'94\
\
\'93Of course there\'92s a bathtub. Whose apartment do you think this is,\
mine?\'94\
\
\'93Well whose is it Herfy?\'94\
\
\'93It belongs to Lester. I\'92m just caretaker while he\'92s abroad, the lucky\
dog.\'94 Stan started peeling off his clothes letting them drop in a pile\
about his feet. \'93Gee I\'92d like to go swimming.... Why the hell do people\
live in cities?\'94\
\
\'93Why do I go on dragging out a miserable existence in this crazy\
epileptic town ... that\'92s what I want to know.\'94\
\
\'93Lead on Horatius, to the baawth slave,\'94 bellowed Stan who stood on top\
of his pile of clothes, brown with tight rounded muscles, swaying a\
little from his drunkenness.\
\
\'93It\'92s right through that door.\'94 Jimmy pulled a towel out of the\
steamertrunk in the corner of the room, threw it after him and went\
back to reading.\
\
Stan tumbled back into the room, dripping, talking through the towel.\
\'93What do you think, I forgot to take my hat off. And look Herfy,\
there\'92s something I want you to do for me. Do you mind?\'94\
\
\'93Of course not. What is it?\'94\
\
\'93Will you let me use your back room tonight, this room?\'94\
\
\'93Sure you can.\'94\
\
\'93I mean with somebody.\'94\
\
\'93Go as far as you like. You can bring the entire Winter Garden Chorus\
in here and nobody will see them. And there\'92s an emergency exit down\
the fire escape into the alley. I\'92ll go to bed and close my door so you\
can have this room and the bath all to yourselves.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a rotten imposition but somebody\'92s husband is on the rampage and\
we have to be very careful.\'94\
\
\'93Dont worry about the morning. I\'92ll sneak out early and you can have\
the place to yourselves.\'94\
\
\'93Well I\'92m off so long.\'94\
\
Jimmy gathered up his book and went into his bedroom and undressed.\
His watch said fifteen past twelve. The night was sultry. When he had\
turned out the light he sat a long while on the edge of the bed. The\
faraway sounds of sirens from the river gave him gooseflesh. From the\
street he heard footsteps, the sound of men and women\'92s voices, low\
youthful laughs of people going home two by two. A phonograph was\
playing _Secondhand Rose_. He lay on his back on top of the sheet.\
There came on the air through the window a sourness of garbage, a smell\
of burnt gasoline and traffic and dusty pavements, a huddled stuffiness\
of pigeonhole rooms where men and women\'92s bodies writhed alone tortured\
by the night and the young summer. He lay with seared eyeballs staring\
at the ceiling, his body glowed in a brittle shivering agony like\
redhot metal.\
\
A woman\'92s voice whispering eagerly woke him; someone was pushing open\
the door. \'93I wont see him. I wont see him. Jimmy for Heaven\'92s sake you\
go talk to him. I wont see him.\'94 Elaine Oglethorpe draped in a sheet\
walked into the room.\
\
Jimmy tumbled out of bed. \'93What on earth?\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t there a closet or something in here.... I will not talk to Jojo\
when he\'92s in that condition.\'94\
\
Jimmy straightened his pyjamas. \'93There\'92s a closet at the head of the\
bed.\'94\
\
\'93Of course.... Now Jimmy do be an angel, talk to him and make him go\
away.\'94\
\
Jimmy walked dazedly into the outside room. \'93Slut, slut,\'94 was yelling\
a voice from the window. The lights were on. Stan, draped like an\
Indian in a gray and pink-striped blanket was squatting in the middle\
of the two couches made up together into a vast bed. He was staring\
impassively at John Oglethorpe who leaned in through the upper part of\
the window screaming and waving his arms and scolding like a Punch and\
Judy show. His hair was in a tangle over his eyes, in one hand he waved\
a stick, in the other a creamandcoffeecolored felt hat. \'93Slut come\
here.... Flagrante delictu that\'92s what it is.... Flagrante delictu.\
It was not for nothing that inspiration led me up Lester Jones\'92s fire\
escape.\'94 He stopped and stared a minute at Jimmy with wide drunken\
eyes. \'93So here\'92s the cub reporter, the yellow journalist is it, looking\
as if butter wouldnt melt in his mouth is it? Do you know what my\
opinion of you is, would you like to know what my opinion of you is? Oh\
I\'92ve heard about you from Ruth and all that. I know you think you\'92re\
one of the dynamiters and aloof from all that.... How do you like being\
a paid prostitute of the public press? How d\'92you like your yellow\
ticket? The brass check, that\'92s the kind of thing.... You think that as\
an actor, an artiste, I dont know about those things. I\'92ve heard from\
Ruth your opinion of actors and all that.\'94\
\
\'93Why Mr. Oglethorpe I am sure you are mistaken.\'94\
\
\'93I read and keep silent. I am one of the silent watchers. I know that\
every sentence, every word, every picayune punctuation that appears in\
the public press is perused and revised and deleted in the interests of\
advertisers and bondholders. The fountain of national life is poisoned\
at the source.\'94\
\
\'93Yea, you tell em,\'94 suddenly shouted Stan from the bed. He got to his\
feet clapping his hands. \'93I should prefer to be the meanest stagehand.\
I should prefer to be the old and feeble charwoman who scrubs off the\
stage ... than to sit on velvet in the office of the editor of the\
greatest daily in the city. Acting is a profession honorable, decent,\
humble, gentlemanly.\'94 The oration ended abruptly.\
\
\'93Well I dont see what you expect me to do about it,\'94 said Jimmy\
crossing his arms.\
\
\'93And now it\'92s starting to rain,\'94 went on Oglethorpe in a squeaky\
whining voice.\
\
\'93You\'92d better go home,\'94 said Jimmy.\
\
\'93I shall go I shall go where there are no sluts ... no male and female\
sluts.... I shall go into the great night.\'94\
\
\'93Do you think he can get home all right Stan?\'94\
\
Stan had sat down on the edge of the bed shaking with laughter. He\
shrugged his shoulders.\
\
\'93My blood will be on your head Elaine forever.... Forever, do you hear\
me? ... into the night where people dont sit laughing and sneering.\
Dont you think I dont see you.... If the worst happens it will not be\
my fault.\'94\
\
\'93Go-od night,\'94 shouted Stan. In a last spasm of laughing he fell off\
the edge of the bed and rolled on the floor. Jimmy went to the window\
and looked down the fire escape into the alley. Oglethorpe had gone. It\
was raining hard. A smell of wet bricks rose from the housewalls.\
\
\'93Well if this isnt the darnedest fool business?\'94 He walked back into\
his room without looking at Stan. In the door Ellen brushed silkily\
past him.\
\
\'93I\'92m terribly sorry Jimmy ...\'94 she began.\
\
He closed the door sharply in her face and locked it. \'93The goddam fools\
they act like crazy people,\'94 he said through his teeth. \'93What the hell\
do they think this is?\'94\
\
His hands were cold and trembling. He pulled a blanket up over him. He\
lay listening to the steady beat of the rain and the hissing spatter of\
a gutter. Now and then a puff of wind blew a faint cool spray in his\
face. There still lingered in the room a frail cedarwood gruff smell of\
her heavycoiled hair, a silkiness of her body where she had crouched\
wrapped in the sheet hiding.\
\
Ed Thatcher sat in his bay window among the Sunday papers. His hair was\
grizzled and there were deep folds in his cheeks. The upper buttons of\
his pongee trousers were undone to ease his sudden little potbelly. He\
sat in the open window looking out over the blistering asphalt at the\
endless stream of automobiles that whirred in either direction past\
the yellowbrick row of stores and the redbrick station under the eaves\
of which on a black ground gold letters glinted feebly in the sun:\
PASSAIC. Apartments round about emitted a querulous Sunday grinding\
of phonographs playing _It\'92s a Bear_. The Sextette from _Lucia_,\
selections from _The Quaker Girl_. On his knees lay the theatrical\
section of the New York _Times_. He looked out with bleared eyes into\
the quivering heat feeling his ribs tighten with a breathless ache. He\
had just read a paragraph in a marked copy of _Town Topics_.\
\
     Malicious tongues are set wagging by the undeniable fact\
     that young Stanwood Emery\'92s car is seen standing every\
     night outside the Knickerbocker Theatre and never does it\
     leave they say, without a certain charming young actress\
     whose career is fast approaching stellar magnitude. This\
     same young gentleman, whose father is the head of one of\
     the city\'92s most respected lawfirms, who recently left\
     Harvard under slightly unfortunate circumstances, has been\
     astonishing the natives for some time with his exploits\
     which we are sure are merely the result of the ebullience\
     of boyish spirits. A word to the wise.\
\
The bell rang three times. Ed Thatcher dropped his papers and hurried\
quaking to the door. \'93Ellie you\'92re so late. I was afraid you weren\'92t\
coming.\'94\
\
\'93Daddy dont I always come when I say I will?\'94\
\
\'93Of course you do deary.\'94\
\
\'93How are you getting on? How\'92s everything at the office?\'94\
\
\'93Mr. Elbert\'92s on his vacation.... I guess I\'92ll go when he comes back. I\
wish you\'92d come down to Spring Lake with me for a few days. It\'92d do you\
good.\'94\
\
\'93But daddy I cant.\'94 ... She pulled off her hat and dropped it on the\
davenport. \'93Look I brought you some roses, daddy.\'94\
\
\'93Think of it; they\'92re red roses like your mother used to like. That was\
very thoughtful of you I must say.... But I dont like going all alone\
on my vacation.\'94\
\
\'93Oh you\'92ll meet lots of cronies daddy, sure you will.\'94\
\
\'93Why couldnt you come just for a week?\'94\
\
\'93In the first place I\'92ve got to look for a job ... show\'92s going on the\
road and I\'92m not going just at present. Harry Goldweiser\'92s awfully sore\
about it.\'94 Thatcher sat down in the bay window again and began piling\
up the Sunday papers on a chair. \'93Why daddy what on earth are you doing\
with that copy of _Town Topics_?\'94\
\
\'93Oh nothing. I\'92d never read it; I just bought it to see what it was\
like.\'94 He flushed and compressed his lips as he shoved it in among the\
_Times_.\
\
\'93It\'92s just a blackmail sheet.\'94 Ellen was walking about the room. She\
had put the roses in a vase. A spiced coolness was spreading from them\
through the dustheavy air. \'93Daddy, there\'92s something I want to tell you\
about ... Jojo and I are going to get divorced.\'94 Ed Thatcher sat with\
his hands on his knees nodding with tight lips, saying nothing. His\
face was gray and dark, almost the speckled gray of his pongee suit.\
\'93It\'92s nothing to take on about. We\'92ve just decided we cant get along\
together. It\'92s all going through quietly in the most approved style ...\
George Baldwin, who\'92s a friend of mine, is going to run it through.\'94\
\
\'93He with Emery and Emery?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Hum.\'94\
\
They were silent. Ellen leaned over to breathe deep of the roses. She\
watched a little green measuring worm cross a bronzed leaf.\
\
\'93Honestly I\'92m terribly fond of Jojo, but it drives me wild to live with\
him.... I owe him a whole lot, I know that.\'94\
\
\'93I wish you\'92d never set eyes on him.\'94\
\
Thatcher cleared his throat and turned his face away from her to look\
out the window at the two endless bands of automobiles that passed\
along the road in front of the station. Dust rose from them and angular\
glitter of glass enamel and nickel. Tires made a swish on the oily\
macadam. Ellen dropped onto the davenport and let her eyes wander among\
the faded red roses of the carpet.\
\
The bell rang. \'93I\'92ll go daddy.... How do you do Mrs. Culveteer?\'94\
\
A redfaced broad woman in a black and white chiffon dress came into the\
room puffing. \'93Oh you must forgive my butting in, I\'92m just dropping by\
for a second.... How are you Mr. Thatcher?... You know my dear your\
poor father has really been very poorly.\'94\
\
\'93Nonsense; all I had was a little backache.\'94\
\
\'93Lumbago my dear.\'94\
\
\'93Why daddy you ought to have let me know.\'94\
\
\'93The sermon today was most inspiring, Mr. Thatcher.... Mr. Lourton was\
at his very best.\'94\
\
\'93I guess I ought to rout out and go to church now and then, but you see\
I like to lay round the house Sundays.\'94\
\
\'93Of course Mr. Thatcher it\'92s the only day you have. My husband was just\
like that.... But I think it\'92s different with Mr. Lourton than with\
most clergymen. He has such an uptodate commonsense view of things.\
It\'92s really more like attending an intensely interesting lecture than\
going to church.... You understand what I mean.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you what I\'92ll do Mrs. Culveteer, next Sunday if it\'92s not too\
hot I\'92ll go.... I guess I\'92m getting too set in my ways.\'94\
\
\'93Oh a little change does us all good.... Mrs. Oglethorpe you have\
no idea how closely we follow your career, in the Sunday papers and\
all.... I think it\'92s simply wonderful.... As I was telling Mr. Thatcher\
only yesterday it must take a lot of strength of character and deep\
Christian living to withstand the temptations of stage life nowadays.\
It\'92s inspiring to think of a young girl and wife coming so sweet and\
unspoiled through all that.\'94\
\
Ellen kept looking at the floor so as not to catch her father\'92s eye.\
He was tapping with two fingers on the arm of his morrischair. Mrs.\
Culveteer beamed from the middle of the davenport. She got to her feet.\
\'93Well I just must run along. We have a green girl in the kitchen and\
I\'92m sure dinner\'92s all ruined.... Wont you drop in this afternoon...?\
quite informally. I made some cookies and we\'92ll have some gingerale out\
just in case somebody turns up.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sure we\'92d be delighted Mrs. Culveteer,\'94 said Thatcher getting\
stiffly to his feet. Mrs. Culveteer in her bunchy dress waddled out the\
door.\
\
\'93Well Ellie suppose we go eat.... She\'92s a very nice kindhearted woman.\
She\'92s always bringing me pots of jam and marmalade. She lives upstairs\
with her sister\'92s family. She\'92s the widow of a traveling man.\'94\
\
\'93That was quite a line about the temptations of stage life,\'94 said Ellen\
with a little laugh in her throat. \'93Come along or the place\'92ll be\
crowded. Avoid the rush is my motto.\'94\
\
Said Thatcher in a peevish crackling voice, \'93Let\'92s not dawdle around.\'94\
\
Ellen spread out her sunshade as they stepped out of the door flanked\
on either side by bells and letterboxes. A blast of gray heat beat in\
their faces. They passed the stationery store, the red A. and P., the\
corner drugstore from which a stale coolness of sodawater and icecream\
freezers drifted out under the green awning, crossed the street,\
where their feet sank into the sticky melting asphalt, and stopped\
at the Sagamore Cafeteria. It was twelve exactly by the clock in the\
window that had round its face in old English lettering, TIME TO EAT.\
Under it was a large rusty fern and a card announcing Chicken Dinner\
$1.25. Ellen lingered in the doorway looking up the quivering street.\
\'93Look daddy we\'92ll probably have a thunderstorm.\'94 A cumulus soared in\
unbelievable snowy contours in the slate sky. \'93Isnt that a fine cloud?\
Wouldnt it be fine if we had a riproaring thunderstorm?\'94\
\
Ed Thatcher looked up, shook his head and went in through the swinging\
screen door. Ellen followed him. Inside it smelled of varnish and\
waitresses. They sat down at a table near the door under a droning\
electric fan.\
\
\'93How do you do Mr. Thatcher? How you been all the week sir? How do\
you do miss?\'94 The bonyfaced peroxidehaired waitress hung over them\
amicably. \'93What\'92ll it be today sir, roast Long Island duckling or roast\
Philadelphia milkfed capon?\'94\
\
\
\
\
IV. Fire Engine\
\
          _Such afternoons the buses are crowded into line like\
          elephants in a circusparade. Morningside Heights to\
          Washington Square, Penn Station to Grant\'92s Tomb.\
          Parlorsnakes and flappers joggle hugging downtown uptown,\
          hug joggling gray square after gray square, until they see\
          the new moon giggling over Weehawken and feel the gusty\
          wind of a dead Sunday blowing dust in their faces, dust of\
          a typsy twilight._\
\
\
They are walking up the Mall in Central Park.\
\
\'93Looks like he had a boil on his neck,\'94 says Ellen in front of the\
statue of Burns.\
\
\'93Ah,\'94 whispers Harry Goldweiser with a fat-throated sigh, \'93but he was a\
great poet.\'94\
\
She is walking in her wide hat in her pale loose dress that the wind\
now and then presses against her legs and arms, silkily, swishily\
walking in the middle of great rosy and purple and pistachiogreen\
bubbles of twilight that swell out of the grass and trees and ponds,\
bulge against the tall houses sharp gray as dead teeth round the\
southern end of the park, melt into the indigo zenith. When he talks,\
forming sentences roundly with his thick lips, continually measuring\
her face with his brown eyes, she feels his words press against her\
body, nudge in the hollows where her dress clings; she can hardly\
breathe for fear of listening to him.\
\
\'93The Zinnia Girl\'92s going to be an absolute knockout, Elaine, I\'92m\
telling you and that part\'92s just written for you. I\'92d enjoy working\
with you again, honest.... You\'92re so different, that\'92s what it is about\
you. All these girls round New York here are just the same, they\'92re\
monotonous. Of course you could sing swell if you wanted to.... I\'92ve\
been crazy as a loon since I met you, and that\'92s a good six months\
now. I sit down to eat and the food dont have any taste.... You cant\
understand how lonely a man gets when year after year he\'92s had to\
crush his feelings down into himself. When I was a young fellow I was\
different, but what are you to do? I had to make money and make my way\
in the world. And so I\'92ve gone on year after year. For the first time\
I\'92m glad I did it, that I shoved ahead and made big money, because now\
I can offer it all to you. Understand what I mean?... All those ideels\
and beautiful things pushed down into myself when I was making my way\
in a man\'92s world were like planting seed and you\'92re their flower.\'94\
\
Now and then as they walk the back of his hand brushes against hers;\
she clenches her fist sullenly drawing it away from the hot determined\
pudginess of his hand.\
\
The Mall is full of couples, families waiting for the music to begin.\
It smells of children and dress-shields and talcum powder. A balloonman\
passes them trailing red and yellow and pink balloons like a great\
inverted bunch of grapes behind him. \'93Oh buy me a balloon.\'94 The words\
are out of her mouth before she can stop them.\
\
\'93Hay you gimme one of each color.... And how about one of those gold\
ones? No keep the change.\'94\
\
Ellen put the strings of the balloons into the dirtsticky hands of\
three little monkeyfaced girls in red tarns. Each balloon caught a\
crescent of violet glare from the arclight.\
\
\'93Aw you like children, Elaine, dont you? I like a woman to like\
children.\'94\
\
Ellen sits numb at a table on the terrace of the Casino. A hot gust of\
foodsmell and the rhythm of a band playing _He\'92s a Ragpicker_ swirls\
chokingly about her; now and then she butters a scrap of roll and puts\
it in her mouth. She feels very helpless, caught like a fly in his\
sticky trickling sentences.\
\
\'93There\'92s nobody else in New York could have got me to walk that far,\
I\'92ll tell you that.... I walked too much in the old days, do you\
understand, used to sell papers when I was a kid and run errands\
for Schwartz\'92s Toystore ... on my feet all day except when I was in\
nightschool. I thought I was going to be a lawyer, all us East Side\
fellers thought we were goin to be lawyers. Then I worked as an usher\
one summer at the Irving Place and got the theater bug.... Not such a\
bad hunch it turned out to be, but it\'92s too uncertain. Now I dont care\
any more, only want to cover my losses. That\'92s the trouble with me.\
I\'92m thirtyfive an I dont care any more. Ten years ago I was still only\
a kind of clerk in old man Erlanger\'92s office, and now there\'92s lots of\
em whose shoes I used to shine in the old days\'92d be real glad of the\
opportunity to sweep my floors on West Forty-eighth.... Tonight I can\
take you anywhere in New York, I dont care how expensive or how chic it\
is ... an in the old days us kids used to think it was paradise if we\
had five plunks to take a couple of girls down to the Island.... I bet\
all that was different with you Elaine.... But what I want to do is get\
that old feelin back, understand?... Where shall we go?\'94\
\
\'93Why dont we go down to Coney Island then? I\'92ve never been?\
\
\'93It\'92s a pretty rough crowd ... still we can just ride round. Let\'92s do\
it. I\'92ll go phone for the car.\'94\
\
Ellen sits alone looking down into her coffeecup. She puts a lump of\
sugar on her spoon, dips it in the coffee and pops it into her mouth\
where she crunches it slowly, rubbing the grains of sugar against the\
roof of her mouth with her tongue. The orchestra is playing a tango.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The sun streaming into the office under the drawn shades cut a bright\
slanting layer like watered silk through the cigarsmoke.\
\
\'93Mighty easy,\'94 George Baldwin was saying dragging out the words. \'93Gus\
we got to go mighty easy on this.\'94 Gus McNiel bullnecked redfaced with\
a heavy watchchain in his vest sat in the armchair nodding silently,\
pulling on his cigar. \'93As things are now no court would sustain such an\
injunction ... an injunction that seems to me a pure piece of party\
politics on Judge Connor\'92s part, but there are certain elements....\'94\
\
\'93You said it.... Look here George I\'92m goin to leave this whole blame\
thing to you. You pulled me through the East New York dockin space mess\
and I guess you can pull me through this.\'94\
\
\'93But Gus your position in this whole affair has been entirely within\
the bounds of legality. If it werent I certainly should not be able to\
take the case, not even for an old friend like you.\'94\
\
\'93You know me George.... I never went back on a guy yet and I dont\
expect to have anybody go back on me.\'94 Gus got heavily to his feet and\
began to limp about the office leaning on a goldknobbed cane. \'93Connor\'92s\
a son of a bitch ... an honest, you wouldn\'92t believe it but he was a\
decent guy before he went up to Albany.\'94\
\
\'93My position will be that your attitude in this whole matter has been\
willfully misconstrued. Connor has been using his position on the bench\
to further a political end.\'94\
\
\'93God I wish we could get him. Jez I thought he was one of the boys;\
he was until he went up an got mixed up with all those lousy upstate\
Republicans. Albany\'92s been the ruination of many a good man.\'94\
\
Baldwin got up from the flat mahogany table where he sat between tall\
sheaves of foolscap and put his hand on Gus\'92s shoulder. \'93Dont you lose\
any sleep over it....\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d feel all right if it wasn\'92t for those Interborough bonds.\'94\
\
\'93What bonds? Who\'92s seen any bonds?... Let\'92s get this young fellow in\
here ... Joe ... And one more thing Gus, for heaven\'92s sakes keep your\
mouth shut.... If any reporters or anybody comes round to see you tell\
\'92em about your trip to Bermuda.... We can get publicity enough when we\
need it. Just at present we want to keep the papers out of it or you\'92ll\
have all the reformers on your heels.\'94\
\
\'93Well aint they friends of yours? You can fix it up with em.\'94\
\
\'93Gus I\'92m a lawyer and not a politician.... I dont meddle in those\
things at all. They dont interest me.\'94\
\
Baldwin brought the flat of his hand down on a pushbell. An\
ivoryskinned young woman with heavy sullen eyes and jetty hair came\
into the room.\
\
\'93How do you do Mr. McNeil.\'94\
\
\'93My but you\'92re looking well Miss Levitsky.\'94\
\
\'93Emily tell em to send that young fellow that\'92s waiting for Mr. McNiel\
in.\'94\
\
Joe O\'92Keefe came in dragging his feet a little, with his straw hat in\
his hand. \'93Howde do sir.\'94\
\
\'93Look here Joe, what does McCarthy say?\'94\
\
\'93Contractors and Builders Association\'92s goin to declare a lockout from\
Monday on.\'94\
\
\'93And how\'92s the union?\'94\
\
\'93We got a full treasury. We\'92re goin to fight.\'94\
\
Baldwin sat down on the edge of the desk. \'93I wish I knew what Mayor\
Mitchel\'92s attitude was on all this.\'94\
\
\'93That reform gang\'92s just treadin water like they always do,\'94 said Gus\
savagely biting the end off a cigar. \'93When\'92s this decision going to be\
made public?\'94\
\
\'93Saturday.\'94\
\
\'93Well keep in touch with us.\'94\
\
\'93All right gentlemen. And please dont call me on the phone. It dont\
look exactly right. You see it aint my office.\'94\
\
\'93Might be wiretappin goin on too. Those fellers wont stop at nothin.\
Well see ye later Joey.\'94\
\
Joe nodded and walked out. Baldwin turned frowning to Gus.\
\
\'93Gus I dont know what I\'92m goin to do with you if you dont keep out of\
all this labor stuff. A born politician like you ought to have better\
sense. You just cant get away with it.\'94\
\
\'93But we got the whole damn town lined up.\'94\
\
\'93I know a whole lot of the town that isnt lined up. But thank Heavens\
that\'92s not my business. This bond stuff is all right, but if you get\
into a mess with this strike business I couldn\'92t handle your case. The\
firm wouldnt stand for it,\'94 he whispered fiercely. Then he said aloud\
in his usual voice, \'93Well how\'92s the wife, Gus?\'94\
\
Outside in the shiny marble hall, Joe O\'92Keefe was whistling _Sweet\
Rosy O\'92Grady_ waiting for the elevator. Imagine a guy havin a knockout\
like that for a secretary. He stopped whistling and let the breath out\
silently through pursed lips. In the elevator he greeted a walleyed man\
in a check suit. \'93Hullo Buck.\'94\
\
\'93Been on your vacation yet?\'94\
\
Joe stood with his feet apart and his hands in his pockets. He shook\
his head. \'93I get off Saturday.\'94\
\
\'93I guess I\'92ll take in a couple o days at Atlantic City myself.\'94\
\
\'93How do you do it?\'94\
\
\'93Oh the kid\'92s clever.\'94\
\
Coming out of the building O\'92Keefe had to make his way through people\
crowding into the portal. A slate sky sagging between the tall\
buildings was spatting the pavements with fiftycent pieces. Men were\
running to cover with their straw hats under their coats. Two girls had\
made hoods of newspaper over their summer bonnets. He snatched blue of\
their eyes, a glint of lips and teeth as he passed. He walked fast to\
the corner and caught an uptown car on the run. The rain advanced down\
the street in a solid sheet glimmering, swishing, beating newspapers\
flat, prancing in silver nipples along the asphalt, striping windows,\
putting shine on the paint of streetcars and taxicabs. Above Fourteenth\
there was no rain, the air was sultry.\
\
\'93A funny thing weather,\'94 said an old man next to him. O\'92Keefe grunted.\
\'93When I was a boy onct I saw it rain on one side of the street an a\
house was struck by lightnin an on our side not a drop fell though the\
old man wanted it bad for some tomatoplants he\'92d just set out.\'94\
\
Crossing Twentythird O\'92Keefe caught sight of the tower of Madison\
Square Garden. He jumped off the car; the momentum carried him in\
little running steps to the curb. Turning his coatcollar down again he\
started across the square. On the end of a bench under a tree drowsed\
Joe Harland. O\'92Keefe plunked down in the seat beside him.\
\
\'93Hello Joe. Have a cigar.\'94\
\
\'93Hello Joe. I\'92m glad to see you my boy. Thanks. It\'92s many a day since\
I\'92ve smoked one of these things.... What are you up to? Aint this kind\
of out of your beat?\'94\
\
\'93I felt kinder blue so I thought I\'92d buy me a ticket to the fight\
Saturday.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93Hell I dunno.... Things dont seem to go right. Here I\'92ve got myself\
all in deep in this political game and there dont seem to be no future\
in it. God I wish I was educated like you.\'94\
\
\'93A lot of good it\'92s done me.\'94\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t say that.... If I could ever git on the track you were on I\
bet ye I wouldn\'92t lose out.\'94\
\
\'93You cant tell Joe, funny things get into a man.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s women and that sort of stuff.\'94\
\
\'93No I dont mean that.... You get kinder disgusted.\'94\
\
\'93But hell I dont see how a guy with enough jack can git disgusted.\'94\
\
\'93Then maybe it was booze, I dont know.\'94\
\
They sat silent a minute. The afternoon was flushing with sunset. The\
cigarsmoke was blue and crinkly about their heads.\
\
\'93Look at the swell dame.... Look at the way she walks. Aint she a\
peacherino? That\'92s the way I like \'92em, all slick an frilly with their\
lips made up.... Takes jack to go round with dames like that.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re no different from anybody else, Joe.\'94\
\
\'93The hell you say.\'94\
\
\'93Say Joe you havent got an extra dollar on you?\'94\
\
\'93Maybe I have.\'94\
\
\'93My stomach\'92s a little out of order.... I\'92d like to take a little\
something to steady it, and I\'92m flat till I get paid Saturday ... er\
... you understand ... you\'92re sure you dont mind? Give me your address\
and I\'92ll send it to you first thing Monday morning.\'94\
\
\'93Hell dont worry about it, I\'92ll see yez around somewheres.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you Joe. And for God\'92s sake dont buy any more Blue Peter Mines\
on a margin without asking me about it. I may be a back number but I\
can still tell a goldbrick with my eyes closed.\'94\
\
\'93Well I got my money back.\'94\
\
\'93It took the devil\'92s own luck to do it.\'94\
\
\'93Jez it strikes me funny me loanin a dollar to the guy who owned half\
the Street.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I never had as much as they said I did.\'94\
\
\'93This is a funny place....\'94\
\
\'93Where?\'94\
\
\'93Oh I dunno, I guess everywhere.... Well so long Joe, I guess I\'92ll go\
along an buy that ticket.... Jez it\'92s goin to be a swell fight.\'94\
\
Joe Harland watched the young man\'92s short jerky stride as he went off\
down the path with his straw hat on the side of his head. Then he got\
to his feet and walked east along Twentythird Street. The pavements and\
housewalls still gave off heat although the sun had set. He stopped\
outside a corner saloon and examined carefully a group of stuffed\
ermines, gray with dust, that occupied the center of the window.\
Through the swinging doors a sound of quiet voices and a malty coolness\
seeped into the street. He suddenly flushed and bit his upper lip and\
after a furtive glance up and down the street went in through the\
swinging doors and shambled up to the brassy bottleglittering bar.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
After the rain outdoors the plastery backstage smell was pungent in\
their nostrils. Ellen hung the wet raincoat on the back of the door and\
put her umbrella in a corner of the dressing room where a little puddle\
began to spread from it. \'93And all I could think of,\'94 she was saying\
in a low voice to Stan who followed her staggering, \'93was a funny song\
somebody\'92d told me when I was a little girl about: And the only man\
who survived the flood was longlegged Jack of the Isthmus.\'94\
\
\'93God I dont see why people have children. It\'92s an admission of defeat.\
Procreation is the admission of an incomplete organism. Procreation is\
an admission of defeat.\'94\
\
\'93Stan for Heaven\'92s sake dont shout, you\'92ll shock the stagehands.... I\
oughtnt to have let you come. You know the way people gossip round a\
theater.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be quiet just like a lil mouse.... Just let me wait till Milly\
comes to dress you. Seeing you dress is my only remaining pleasure ...\
I admit that as an organism I\'92m incomplete.\'94\
\
\'93You wont be an organism of any kind if you dont sober up.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to drink ... I\'92m going to drink till when I cut myself\
whiskey runs out. What\'92s the good of blood when you can have whiskey?\'94\
\
\'93Oh Stan.\'94\
\
\'93The only thing an incomplete organism can do is drink.... You complete\
beautiful organisms dont need to drink.... I\'92m going to lie down and go\
byby.\'94\
\
\'93Dont Stan for Heaven\'92s sake. If you go and pass out here I\'92ll never\
forgive you.\'94\
\
There was a soft doubleknock at the door. \'93Come in Milly.\'94 Milly was a\
small wrinklefaced woman with black eyes. A touch of negro blood made\
her purplegray lips thick, gave a lividness to her verywhite skin.\
\
\'93It\'92s eight fifteen dear,\'94 she said as she bustled in. She gave a quick\
look at Stan and turned to Ellen with a little wry frown.\
\
\'93Stan you\'92ve got to go away.... I\'92ll meet you at the Beaux Arts or\
anywhere you like afterwards.\'94\
\
\'93I want to go byby.\'94\
\
Sitting in front of the mirror at her dressingtable Ellen was wiping\
cold cream off her face with quick dabs of a little towel. From her\
makeup box a smell of greasepaint and cocoabutter melted fatly through\
the room.\
\
\'93I dont know what to do with him tonight,\'94 she whispered to Milly as\
she slipped off her dress. \'93Oh I wish he would stop drinking.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d put him in the shower and turn cold water on him deary.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s the house tonight Milly?\'94\
\
\'93Pretty thin Miss Elaine.\'94\
\
\'93I guess it\'92s the bad weather ... I\'92m going to be terrible.\'94\
\
\'93Dont let him get you worked up deary. Men aint worth it.\'94\
\
\'93I want to go byby.\'94 Stan was swaying and frowning in the center of the\
room. \'93Miss Elaine I\'92ll put him in the bathroom; nobody\'92ll notice him\
there.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it, let him go to sleep in the bathtub.\'94\
\
\'93Ellie I\'92ll go byby in the bathtub.\'94\
\
The two women pushed him into the bathroom. He flopped limply into the\
tub, and lay there asleep with his feet in the air and his head on the\
faucets. Milly was making little rapid clucking noises with her tongue.\
\
\'93He\'92s like a sleepy baby when he\'92s like this,\'94 whispered Ellen softly.\
She stuck the folded bathmat under his head and brushed the sweaty hair\
off his forehead. He was hardly breathing. She leaned and kissed his\
eyelids very softly.\
\
\'93Miss Elaine you must hurry ... curtain\'92s ringing up.\'94\
\
\'93Look quick am I all right?\'94\
\
\'93Pretty as a picture.... Lord love you dear.\'94\
\
Ellen ran down the stairs and round to the wings, stood there, panting\
with terror as if she had just missed being run over by an automobile\
grabbed the musicroll she had to go on with from the property man, got\
her cue and walked on into the glare.\
\
\'93How do you do it Elaine?\'94 Harry Goldweiser was saying, shaking his\
calf\'92s head from the chair behind her. She could see him in the mirror\
as she took her makeup off. A taller man with gray eyes and eyebrows\
stood beside him. \'93You remember when they first cast you for the part I\
said to Mr. Fallik, Sol she cant do it, didnt I Sol?\'94\
\
\'93Sure you did Harry.\'94\
\
\'93I thought that no girl so young and beautiful could put, you know ...\
put the passion and terror into it, do you understand?... Sol and I\
were out front for that scene in the last act.\'94\
\
\'93Wonderful, wonderful,\'94 groaned Mr. Fallik. \'93Tell us how you do it\
Elaine.\'94\
\
The makeup came off black and pink on the cloth. Milly moved discreetly\
about the background hanging up dresses.\
\
\'93Do you know who it was who coached me up on that scene? John\
Oglethorpe. It\'92s amazing the ideas he has about acting.\'94\
\
\'93Yes it\'92s a shame he\'92s so lazy.... He\'92d be a very valuable actor.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not exactly laziness ...\'94 Ellen shook down her hair and twisted\
it in a coil in her two hands. She saw Harry Goldweiser nudge Mr.\
Fallik.\
\
\'93Beautiful isn\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s Red Red Rose going?\'94\
\
\'93Oh dont ask me Elaine. Played exclusively to the ushers last week, do\
you understand? I dont see why it dont go, it\'92s catchy.... Mae Merrill\
has a pretty figure. Oh, the show business has all gone to hell.\'94\
\
Ellen put the last bronze pin in the copper coil of her hair. She\
tossed her chin up. \'93I\'92d like to try something like that.\'94\
\
\'93But one thing at a time my dear young lady; we\'92ve just barely got you\
started as an emotional actress.\'94\
\
\'93I hate it; it\'92s all false. Sometimes I want to run down to the foots\
and tell the audience, go home you damn fools. This is a rotten show\
and a lot of fake acting and you ought to know it. In a musical show\
you could be sincere.\'94\
\
\'93Didnt I tell ye she was nuts Sol? Didnt I tell ye she was nuts?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll use some of that little speech in my publicity next week.... I\
can work it in fine.\'94\
\
\'93You cant have her crabbin the show.\'94\
\
\'93No but I can work it in in that column about aspirations of\
celebrities.... You know, this guy is President of the Zozodont Company\
and would rather have been a fireman and another would rather have been\
a keeper at the Zoo.... Great human interest stuff.\'94\
\
\'93You can tell them Mr. Fallik that I think the woman\'92s place is in the\
home ... for the feebleminded.\'94\
\
\'93Ha ha ha,\'94 laughed Harry Goldweiser showing the gold teeth in the\
sides of his mouth. \'93But I know you could dance and sing with the best\
of em, Elaine.\'94\
\
\'93Wasnt I in the chorus for two years before I married Oglethorpe?\'94\
\
\'93You must have started in the cradle,\'94 said Mr. Fallik leering under\
his gray lashes.\
\
\'93Well I must ask you gentlemen to get out of here a minute while I\
change. I\'92m all wringing wet every night after that last act.\'94\
\
\'93We got to get along anyway ... do you understand?... Mind if I use\
your bathroom a sec?\'94\
\
Milly stood in front of the bathroom door. Ellen caught the jetty\
glance of her eyes far apart in her blank white face. \'93I\'92m afraid you\
cant Harry, it\'92s out of order.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll go over to Charley\'92s.... I\'92ll tell Thompson to have a plumber\
come and look at it.... Well good night kid. Be good.\'94\
\
\'93Good night Miss Oglethorpe,\'94 said Mr. Fallik creakily, \'93and if you\
cant be good be careful.\'94 Milly closed the door after them.\
\
\'93Whee, that\'92s a relief,\'94 cried Ellen and stretched out her arms.\
\
\'93I tell you I was scared deary.... Dont you ever let any feller like\
that come to the theater with ye. I\'92ve seen many a good trouper ruined\
by things like that. I\'92m tellin ye because I\'92m fond of you Miss Elaine,\
an I\'92m old an I know about the showbusiness.\'94\
\
\'93Of course you are Milly, and you\'92re quite right too ... Lets see if we\
can wake him up.\'94\
\
\'93My God Milly, look at that.\'94\
\
Stan was lying as they had left him in the bathtub full of water. The\
tail of his coat and one hand were floating on top of the water. \'93Get\
up out of there Stan you idiot.... He might catch his death. You fool,\
you fool.\'94 Ellen took him by the hair and shook his head from side to\
side.\
\
\'93Ooch that hurts,\'94 he moaned in a sleepy child\'92s voice.\
\
\'93Get up out of there Stan.... You\'92re soaked.\'94\
\
He threw back his head and his eyes snapped open. \'93Why so I am.\'94\
He raised himself with his hands on the sides of the tub and stood\
swaying, dripping into the water that was yellow from his clothes and\
shoes, braying his loud laugh. Ellen leaned against the bathroom door\
laughing with her eyes full of tears.\
\
\'93You cant get mad at him Milly, that\'92s what makes him so exasperating.\
Oh what are we going to do?\'94\
\
\'93Lucky he wasnt drownded.... Give me your papers and pocketbook sir.\
I\'92ll try and dry em with a towel,\'94 said Milly.\
\
\'93But you cant go past the doorman like that ... even if we wring you\
out.... Stan you\'92ve got to take off all your clothes and put on a dress\
of mine. Then you can wear my rain cape and we can whisk into a taxicab\
and take you home.... What do you think Milly?\'94\
\
Milly was rolling her eyes and shaking her head as she wrung out Stan\'92s\
coat. In the washbasin she had piled the soppy remains of a pocketbook,\
a pad, pencils, a jacknife, two rolls of film, a flask.\
\
\'93I wanted a bath anyway,\'94 said Stan.\
\
\'93Oh I could beat you. Well you\'92re sober at least.\'94\
\
\'93Sober as a penguin.\'94\
\
\'93Well you\'92ve got to dress up in my clothes that\'92s all....\'94\
\
\'93I cant wear girl\'92s clothes.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve got to.... You havent even got a raincoat to cover that mess.\
If you dont I\'92ll lock you up in the bathroom and leave you.\'94\
\
\'93All right Ellie.... Honest I\'92m terribly sorry.\'94\
\
Milly was wrapping the clothes in newspaper after wringing them out\
in the bathtub. Stan looked at himself in the mirror. \'93Gosh I\'92m an\
indecent sight in this dress.... Ish gebibble.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve never seen anything so disgusting looking.... No you look very\
sweet, a little tough perhaps.... Now for God\'92s sake keep your face\
towards me when you go past old Barney.\'94\
\
\'93My shoes are all squudgy.\'94\
\
\'93It cant be helped.... Thank Heaven I had this cape here.... Milly\
you\'92re an angel to clear up all this mess.\'94\
\
\'93Good night deary, and remember what I said.... I\'92m tellin ye that\'92s\
all....\'94\
\
\'93Stan take little steps and if we meet anybody go right on and jump in\
a taxi.... You can get away with anything if you do it quick enough.\'94\
Ellen\'92s hands were trembling as they came down the steps. She tucked\
one in under Stan\'92s elbow and began talking in a low chatty voice....\
\'93You see dear, daddy came round to see the show two or three nights\
ago and he was shocked to death. He said he thought a girl demeaned\
herself showing her feelings like that before a lot of people.... Isn\'92t\
it killing?... Still he was impressed by the writeups the _Herald_ and\
_World_ gave me Sunday.... Goodnight Barney, nasty night.... My God....\
Here\'92s a taxi, get in. Where are you going?\'94 Out of the dark of the\
taxi, out of his long face muffled in the blue hood, his eyes were so\
bright black they frightened her like coming suddenly on a deep pit in\
the dark.\
\
\'93All right we\'92ll go to my house. Might as well be hanged for a\
sheep.... Driver please go to Bank Street. The taxi started. They were\
jolting through the crisscross planes of red light, green light, yellow\
light beaded with lettering of Broadway. Suddenly Stan leaned over her\
and kissed her hard very quickly on the mouth.\
\
\'93Stan you\'92ve got to stop drinking. It\'92s getting beyond a joke.\'94\
\
\'93Why shouldn\'92t things get beyond a joke? You\'92re getting beyond a joke\
and I dont complain.\'94\
\
\'93But darling you\'92ll kill yourself.\'94\
\
\'93Well?\'94\
\
\'93Oh I dont understand you Stan.\'94\
\
\'93I dont understand you Ellie, but I love you very ... exordinately\
much.\'94 There was a broken tremor in his very low voice that stunned her\
with happiness.\
\
Ellen paid the taxi. Siren throbbing in an upward shriek that burst and\
trailed in a dull wail down the street, a fire engine went by red and\
gleaming, then a hookandladder with bell clanging.\
\
\'93Let\'92s go to the fire Ellie.\'94\
\
\'93With you in those clothes.... We\'92ll do no such thing.\'94\
\
He followed her silent into the house and up the stairs. Her long room\
was cool and fresh smelling.\
\
\'93Ellie you\'92re not sore at me?\'94\
\
\'93Of course not idiot child.\'94\
\
She undid the sodden bundle of his clothes and took them into the\
kitchenette to dry beside the gas stove. The sound of the phonograph\
playing _He\'92s a devil in his own home town_ called her back. Stan had\
taken off the dress. He was dancing round with a chair for a partner,\
her blue padded dressingown flying out from his thin hairy legs.\
\
\'93Oh Stan you precious idiot.\'94\
\
He put down the chair and came towards her brown and male and lean in\
the silly dressingown. The phonograph came to the end of the tune and\
the record went on rasping round and round.\
\
\
\
\
V. Went to the Animals\'92 Fair\
\
          _Red light. Bell._\
\
          _A block deep four ranks of cars wait at the grade\
          crossing, fenders in taillights, mudguards scraping\
          mudguards, motors purring hot, exhausts reeking, cars from\
          Babylon and Jamaica, cars from Montauk, Port Jefferson,\
          Patchogue, limousines from Long Beach, Far Rockaway,\
          roadsters from Great Neck ... cars full of asters and wet\
          bathingsuits, sunsinged necks, mouths sticky from sodas\
          and hotdawgs ... cars dusted with pollen of ragweed and\
          goldenrod._\
\
          _Green light. Motors race, gears screech into first. The\
          cars space out, flow in a long ribbon along the ghostly\
          cement road, between blackwindowed blocks of concrete\
          factories, between bright slabbed colors of signboards\
          towards the glow over the city that stands up incredibly\
          into the night sky like the glow of a great lit tent, like\
          the yellow tall bulk of a tentshow._\
\
\
Sarajevo, the word stuck in her throat when she tried to say it....\
\
\'93It\'92s terrible to think of, terrible,\'94 George Baldwin was groaning.\
\'93The Street\'92ll go plumb to hell.... They\'92ll close the Stock Exchange,\
only thing to do.\'94\
\
\'93And I\'92ve never been to Europe either.... A war must be an\
extraordinary thing to see.\'94 Ellen in her blue velvet dress with a buff\
cloak over it leaned back against the cushions of the taxi that whirred\
smoothly under them. \'93I always think of history as lithographs in a\
schoolbook, generals making proclamations, little tiny figures running\
across fields with their arms spread out, facsimiles of signatures.\'94\
Cones of light cutting into cones of light along the hot humming\
roadside, headlights splashing trees, houses, billboards, telegraph\
poles with broad brushes of whitewash. The taxi made a half turn and\
stopped in front of a roadhouse that oozed pink light and ragtime\
through every chink.\
\
\'93Big crowd tonight,\'94 said the taximan to Baldwin when he paid him.\
\
\'93I wonder why,\'94 asked Ellen.\
\
\'93De Canarsie moider has sumpen to do wid it I guess.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Sumpen terrible. I seen it.\'94\
\
\'93You saw the murder?\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t see him do it. I seen de bodies laid out stiff before dey\
took em to de morgue. Us kids used to call de guy Santa Claus cause he\
had white whiskers.... Knowed him since I was a little feller.\'94 The\
cars behind were honking and rasping their klaxons. \'93I better git a\
move on.... Good night lady.\'94\
\
The red hallway smelt of lobster and steamed clams and cocktails.\
\
\'93Why hello Gus!... Elaine let me introduce Mr. and Mrs. McNiel.... This\
is Miss Oglethorpe.\'94 Ellen shook the big hand of a rednecked snubnosed\
man and the small precisely gloved hand of his wife. \'93Gus I\'92ll see you\
before we go....\'94\
\
Ellen was following the headwaiter\'92s swallowtails along the edge of the\
dancefloor. They sat at a table beside the wall. The music was playing\
_Everybody\'92s Doing It_. Baldwin hummed it as he hung over her a second\
arranging the wrap on the back of her chair.\
\
\'93Elaine you are the loveliest person ...\'94 he began as he sat down\
opposite her. \'93It seems so horrible. I dont see how it\'92s possible.\'94\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93This war. I cant think of anything else.\'94\
\
\'93I can ...\'94 She kept her eyes on the menu. \'93Did you notice those two\
people I introduced to you?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Is that the McNiel whose name is in the paper all the time? Some\
row about a builders\'92 strike and the Interborough bond issue.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all politics. I bet he\'92s glad of the war, poor old Gus. It\'92ll\
do one thing, it\'92ll keep that row off the front page.... I\'92ll tell you\
about him in a minute.... I dont suppose you like steamed clams do you?\
They are very good here.\'94\
\
\'93George I adore steamed clams.\'94\
\
\'93Then we\'92ll have a regular old fashioned Long Island shore dinner. What\
do you think of that?\'94 Laying her gloves away on the edge of the table\
her hand brushed against the vase of rusty red and yellow roses. A\
shower of faded petals fluttered onto her hand, her gloves, the table.\
She shook them off her hands.\
\
\'93And do have him take these wretched roses away George.... I hate faded\
flowers.\'94\
\
Steam from the plated bowl of clams uncoiled in the rosy glow from the\
lampshade. Baldwin watched her fingers, pink and limber, pulling the\
clams by their long necks out of their shells, dipping them in melted\
butter, and popping them dripping in her mouth. She was deep in eating\
clams. He sighed. \'93Elaine ... I\'92m a very unhappy man.... Seeing Gus\
McNiel\'92s wife. It\'92s the first time in years. Think of it I was crazy in\
love with her and now I cant remember what her first name was ... Funny\
isn\'92t it? Things had been extremely slow ever since I had set up in\
practice for myself. It was a rash thing to do, as I was only two years\
out of lawschool and had no money to run on. I was rash in those days.\
I\'92d decided that if I didn\'92t get a case that day I\'92d chuck everything\
and go back to a clerkship. I went out for a walk to clear my head and\
saw a freightcar shunting down Eleventh Avenue run into a milkwagon. It\
was a horrid mess and when we\'92d picked the fellow up I said to myself\
I\'92d get him his rightful damages or bankrupt myself in the attempt.\
I won his case and that brought me to the notice of various people\
downtown, and that started him on his career and me on mine.\'94\
\
\'93So he drove a milkwagon did he? I think milkmen are the nicest people\
in the world. Mine\'92s the cutest thing.\'94\
\
\'93Elaine you wont repeat this to anyone.... I feel the completest\
confidence in you.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s very nice of you George. Isn\'92t it amazing the way girls are\
getting to look more like Mrs. Castle every day? Just look round this\
room.\'94\
\
\'93She was like a wild rose Elaine, fresh and pink and full of the Irish,\
and now she\'92s a rather stumpy businesslike looking little woman.\'94\
\
\'93And you\'92re as fit as you ever were. That\'92s the way it goes.\'94\
\
\'93I wonder.... You dont know how empty and hollow everything was before\
I met you. All Cecily and I can do is make each other miserable.\'94\
\
\'93Where is she now?\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s up at Bar Harbor.... I had luck and all sorts of success when I\
was still a young man.... I\'92m not forty yet.\'94\
\
\'93But I should think it would be fascinating. You must enjoy the law or\
you wouldn\'92t be such a success at it.\'94\
\
\'93Oh success ... success ... what does it mean?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like a little of it.\'94\
\
\'93But my dear girl you have it.\'94\
\
\'93Oh not what I mean.\'94\
\
\'93But it isn\'92t any fun any more. All I do is sit in the office and\
let the young fellows do the work. My future\'92s all cut out for me. I\
suppose I could get solemn and pompous and practice little private\
vices ... but there\'92s more in me than that.\'94\
\
\'93Why dont you go into politics?\'94\
\
\'93Why should I go up to Washington into that greasy backwater when I\'92m\
right on the spot where they give the orders? The terrible thing about\
having New York go stale on you is that there\'92s nowhere else. It\'92s the\
top of the world. All we can do is go round and round in a squirrel\
cage.\'94\
\
Ellen was watching the people in light summer clothes dancing on the\
waxed square of floor in the center; she caught sight of Tony Hunter\'92s\
oval pink and white face at a table on the far side of the room.\
Oglethorpe was not with him. Stan\'92s friend Herf sat with his back to\
her. She watched him laughing, his long rumpled black head poised a\
little askew on a scraggly neck. The other two men she didn\'92t know.\
\
\'93Who are you looking at?\'94\
\
\'93Just some friends of Jojo\'92s.... I wonder how on earth they got way out\
here. It\'92s not exactly on that gang\'92s beat.\'94\
\
\'93Always the way when I try to get away with something,\'94 said Baldwin\
with a wry smile.\
\
\'93I should say you\'92d done exactly what you wanted to all your life.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Elaine if you\'92d only let me do what I want to now. I want you to\
let me make you happy. You\'92re such a brave little girl making your way\
all alone the way you do. By gad you are so full of love and mystery\
and glitter ...\'94 He faltered, took a deep swallow of wine, went on\
with flushing face. \'93I feel like a schoolboy ... I\'92m making a fool of\
myself. Elaine I\'92d do anything in the world for you.\'94\
\
\'93Well all I\'92m going to ask you to do is to send away this lobster. I\
dont think it\'92s terribly good.\'94\
\
\'93The devil ... maybe it isn\'92t.... Here waiter!... I was so rattled I\
didn\'92t know I was eating it.\'94\
\
\'93You can get me some supreme of chicken instead.\'94\
\
\'93Surely you poor child you must be starved.\'94\
\
\'93... And a little corn on the cob.... I understand now why you make\
such a good lawyer, George. Any jury would have burst out sobbing long\
ago at such an impassioned plea.\
\
\'93How about you Elaine?\'94\
\
\'93George please dont ask me.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
At the table where Jimmy Herf sat they were drinking whiskey and\
soda. A yellowskinned man with light hair and a thin nose standing\
out crooked between childish blue eyes was talking in a confidential\
singsong: \'93Honest I had em lashed to the mast. The police department\
is cookoo, absolutely cookoo treating it as a rape and suicide\
case. That old man and his lovely innocent daughter were murdered,\
foully murdered. And do you know who by...?\'94 He pointed a chubby\
cigarettestained finger at Tony Hunter.\
\
\'93Dont give me the third degree judge I dont know anything about it\'94 he\
said dropping his long lashes over his eyes.\
\
\'93By the Black Hand.\'94\
\
\'93You tell em Bullock,\'94 said Jimmy Herf laughing. Bullock brought\
his fist down on the table so that the plates and glasses jingled.\
\'93Canarsie\'92s full of the Black Hand, full of anarchists and kidnappers\
and undesirable citizens. It\'92s our business to ferret em out and\
vindicate the honor of this poor old man and his beloved daughter. We\
are going to vindicate the honor of poor old monkeyface, what\'92s his\
name?\'94\
\
\'93Mackintosh,\'94 said Jimmy. \'93And the people round here used to call him\
Santa Claus. Of course everybody admits he\'92s been crazy for years.\'94\
\
\'93We admit nothing but the majesty of American citizenhood.... But\
hell\'92s bells what\'92s the use when this goddam war takes the whole front\
page? I was going to have a fullpage spread and they\'92ve cut me down to\
half a column. Aint it the life?\'94\
\
\'93You might work up something about how he was a lost heir to the\
Austrian throne and had been murdered for political reasons.\'94\
\
\'93Not such a bad idear Jimmy.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s such a horrible thing,\'94 said Tony Hunter.\
\
\'93You think we\'92re a lot of callous brutes, dont you Tony?\'94\
\
\'93No I just dont see the pleasure people get out of reading about it.\'94\
\
\'93Oh it\'92s all in the day\'92s work,\'94 said Jimmy. \'93What gives me gooseflesh\
is the armies mobilizing, Belgrade bombarded, Belgium invaded ... all\
that stuff. I just cant imagine it.... They\'92ve killed Jaures.\'94 \'93Who\'92s\
he?\'94\
\
\'93A French Socialist.\'94\
\
\'93Those goddam French are so goddam degenerate all they can do is fight\
duels and sleep with each other\'92s wives. I bet the Germans are in Paris\
in two weeks.\'94\
\
\'93It couldn\'92t last long,\'94 said Framingham, a tall ceremonious man with a\
whispy blond moustache who sat beside Hunter.\
\
\'93Well I\'92d like to get an assignment as warcorrespondent.\'94\
\
\'93Say Jimmy do you know this French guy who\'92s barkeep here?\'94\
\
\'93Congo Jake? Sure I know him.\'94\
\
\'93Is he a good guy?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s swell.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go out and talk to him. He might give us some dope about this\
here murder. God I\'92d like it if I could hitch it on to the World\
Conflict.\'94\
\
\'93I have the greatest confidence,\'94 had begun Framingham, \'93that the\
British will patch it up somehow.\'94 Jimmy followed Bullock towards the\
bar.\
\
Crossing the room he caught sight of Ellen. Her hair was very red in\
the glow from the lamp beside her. Baldwin was leaning towards her\
across the table with moist lips and bright eyes. Jimmy felt something\
glittering go off in his chest like a released spring. He turned his\
head away suddenly for fear she should see him.\
\
Bullock turned and nudged him in the ribs. \'93Say Jimmy who the hell are\
those two guys came out with us?\'94\
\
\'93They are friends of Ruth\'92s. I dont know them particularly well.\
Framingham\'92s an interior decorator I think.\'94\
\
At the bar under a picture of the Lusitania stood a dark man in a white\
coat distended by a deep gorilla chest. He was vibrating a shaker\
between his very hairy hands. A waiter stood in front of the bar with a\
tray of cocktail glasses. The cocktail foamed into them greenishwhite.\
\
\'93Hello Congo,\'94 said Jimmy.\
\
\'93Ah bonsoir monsieur \'92Erf, \'e7a biche?\'94\
\
\'93Pretty good ... Say Congo I want you to meet a friend of mine. This is\
Grant Bullock of the _American_.\'94\
\
\'93Very please. You an Mr. \'92Erf ave someting on the \'92ouse sir.\'94\
\
The waiter raised the clinking tray of glasses to shoulder height and\
carried them out on the flat of his hand.\
\
\'93I suppose a gin fizz\'92ll ruin all that whiskey but I\'92d like one....\
Drink something with us wont you Congo?\'94 Bullock put a foot up on the\
brass rail and took a sip. \'93I was wondering,\'94 he said slowly, \'93if there\
was any dope going round about this murder down the road.\'94\
\
\'93Everybody ave his teyorie ...\'94\
\
Jimmy caught a faint wink from one of Congo\'92s deepset black eyes. \'93Do\
you live out here?\'94 he asked to keep from giggling.\
\
\'93In the middle of the night I hear an automobile go by very fast wid de\
cutout open. I tink maybe it run into someting because it stopped very\
quick and come back much faster, licketysplit.\'94\
\
\'93Did you hear a shot?\'94\
\
Congo shook his head mysteriously. \'93I ear voices, very angree voices.\'94\
\
\'93Gosh I\'92m going to look into this,\'94 said Bullock tossing off the end of\
his drink. \'93Let\'92s go back to the girls.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Ellen was looking at the face wrinkled like a walnut and the dead\
codfish eyes of the waiter pouring coffee. Baldwin was leaning back in\
his chair staring at her through his eyelashes. He was talking in a low\
monotone:\
\
\'93Cant you see that I\'92ll go mad if I cant have you. You are the only\
thing in the world I ever wanted.\'94\
\
\'93George I dont want to be had by anybody.... Cant you understand that a\
woman wants some freedom? Do be a sport about it. I\'92ll have to go home\
if you talk like that.\'94\
\
\'93Why have you kept me dangling then? I\'92m not the sort of man you can\
play like a trout. You know that perfectly well.\'94\
\
She looked straight at him with wide gray eyes; the light gave a sheen\
of gold to the little brown specks in the iris.\
\
\'93It\'92s not so easy never to be able to have friends.\'94 She looked down\
at her fingers on the edge of the table. His eyes were on the glint of\
copper along her eyelashes. Suddenly he snapped the silence that was\
tightening between them.\
\
\'93Anyway let\'92s dance.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
    J\'92ai fait trois fois le tour du monde\
    Dans mes voyages,\
\
hummed Congo Jake as the big shining shaker quivered between his\
hairy hands. The narrow greenpapered bar was swelled and warped with\
bubbling voices, spiral exhalations of drinks, sharp clink of ice and\
glasses, an occasional strain of music from the other room. Jimmy Herf\
stood alone in the corner sipping a gin fizz. Next him Gus McNiel was\
slapping Bullock on the back and roaring in his ear:\
\
\'93Why if they dont close the Stock Exchange ... god-amighty ... before\
the blowup comes there\'92ll be an opportunity.... Well begorry dont you\
forget it. A panic\'92s the time for a man with a cool head to make money.\'94\
\
\'93There have been some big failures already and this is just the first\
whiff....\'94\
\
\'93Opportunity knocks but once at a young man\'92s door.... You listen to\
me when there\'92s a big failure of one o them brokerage firms honest men\
can bless themselves.... But you\'92re not putting everythin I\'92m tellin\
ye in the paper, are you? There\'92s a good guy.... Most of you fellers\
go around puttin words in a man\'92s mouth. Cant trust one of you. I\'92ll\
tell you one thing though the lockout is a wonderful thing for the\
contractors. Wont be no housebuildin with a war on anyway.\'94 \'93It wont\
last more\'92n two weeks and I dont see what it has to do with us anyway.\'94\
\
\'93But conditions\'92ll be affected all over the world.... Conditions....\
Hello Joey what the hell do you want?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to talk to you private for a minute sir. There\'92s some big\
news....\'94\
\
The bar emptied gradually. Jimmy Herf was still standing at the end\
against the wall.\
\
\'93You never get drunk, Mr. \'92Erf.\'94 Congo Jake sat down back of the bar to\
drink a cup of coffee.\
\
\'93I\'92d rather watch the other fellows.\'94\
\
\'93Very good. No use spend a lot o money ave a eadache next day.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s no way for a barkeep to talk.\'94\
\
\'93I say what I tink.\'94\
\
\'93Say I\'92ve always wanted to ask you.... Do you mind telling me?... How\
did you get the name of Congo Jake?\'94\
\
Congo laughed deep in his chest. \'93I dunno.... When I very leetle I\
first go to sea dey call me Congo because I have curly hair an dark\
like a nigger. Den when I work in America, on American ship an all zat,\
guy ask me How you feel Congo? and I say Jake ... so dey call me Congo\
Jake.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s some nickname.... I thought you\'92d followed the sea.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a \'92ard life.... I tell you Mr. \'92Erf, there\'92s someting about me\
unlucky. When I first remember on a peniche, you know what I mean ...\
in canal, a big man not my fader beat me up every day. Then I run away\
and work on sailboats in and out of Bordeaux, you know?\'94\
\
\'93I was there when I was a kid I think....\'94\
\
\'93Sure.... You understand them things Mr. \'92Erf. But a feller like\
you, good education, all \'92at, you dont know what life is. When I was\
seventeen I come to New York ... no good. I tink of notten but raising\
Cain. Den I shipped out again and went everywhere to hell an gone. In\
Shanghai I learned spik American an tend bar. I come back to Frisco an\
got married. Now I want to be American. But unlucky again see? Before I\
marry zat girl her and me lived togedder a year sweet as pie, but when\
we get married no good. She make fun of me and call me Frenchy because\
I no spik American good and den she kick no out of the house an I tell\
her go to hell. Funny ting a man\'92s life.\'94\
\
    J\'92ai fait trois fois le tour du monde\
    Dans mes voyages....\
\
he started in his growling baritone.\
\
There was a hand on Jimmy\'92s arm. He turned. \'93Why Ellie what\'92s the\
matter?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m with a crazy man you\'92ve got to help me get away.\'94\
\
\'93Look this is Congo Jake.... You ought to know him Ellie, he\'92s a fine\
man.... This is une tres grande artiste, Congo.\'94\
\
\'93Wont the lady have a leetle anizette?\'94\
\
\'93Have a little drink with us.... It\'92s awfully cozy in here now that\
everybody\'92s gone.\'94\
\
\'93No thanks I\'92m going home.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s just the neck of the evening.\'94\
\
\'93Well you\'92ll have to take the consequences of my crazy man.... Look\
Herf, have you seen Stan today?\'94\
\
\'93No I haven\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93He didn\'92t turn up when I expected him.\'94\
\
\'93I wish you\'92d keep him from drinking so much, Ellie. I\'92m getting\
worried about him.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not his keeper.\'94\
\
\'93I know, but you know what I mean.\'94\
\
\'93What does our friend here think about all this wartalk?\'94\
\
\'93I wont go.... A workingman has no country. I\'92m going to be American\
citizen.... I was in the marine once but....\'94 He slapped his jerking\
bent forearm with one hand, and a deep laugh rattled in his throat....\
\'93Twentee tree. Moi je suis anarchiste vous comprennez monsieur.\'94\
\
\'93But then you cant be an American citizen.\'94\
\
Congo shrugged his shoulders.\
\
\'93Oh I love him, he\'92s wonderful,\'94 whispered Ellen in Jimmy\'92s ear.\
\
\'93You know why they have this here war.... So that workingmen all over\
wont make big revolution.... Too busy fighting. So Guillaume and\
Viviani and l\'92Empereur d\'92Autriche and Krupp and Rothschild and Morgan\
they say let\'92s have a war.... You know the first thing they do? They\
shoot Jaures, because he socialiste. The socialists are traitors to the\
International but all de samee....\'94\
\
\'93But how can they make people fight if they dont want to?\'94\
\
\'93In Europe people are slaves for thousands of years. Not like \'92ere....\
But I\'92ve seen war. Very funny. I tended bar in Port Arthur, nutten but\
a kid den. It was very funny.\'94\
\
\'93Gee I wish I could get a job as warcorrespondent.\'94\
\
\'93I might go as a Red Cross nurse.\'94\
\
\'93Correspondent very good ting.... Always drunk in American bar very far\
from battlefield.\'94\
\
They laughed.\
\
\'93But arent we rather far from the battlefield, Herf?\'94\
\
\'93All right let\'92s dance. You must forgive me if I dance very badly.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll kick you if you do anything wrong.\'94\
\
His arm was like plaster when he put it round her to dance with her.\
High ashy walls broke and crackled within him. He was soaring like a\
fireballoon on the smell of her hair.\
\
\'93Get up on your toes and walk in time to the music.... Move in straight\
lines that\'92s the whole trick.\'94 Her voice cut the quick coldly like a\
tiny flexible sharp metalsaw. Elbows joggling, faces set, gollywog\
eyes, fat men and thin women, thin women and fat men rotated densely\
about them. He was crumbling plaster with something that rattled\
achingly in his chest, she was an intricate machine of sawtooth steel\
whitebright bluebright copperbright in his arms. When they stopped her\
breast and the side of her body and her thigh came against him. He was\
suddenly full of blood steaming with sweat like a runaway horse. A\
breeze through an open door hustled the tobaccosmoke and the clotted\
pink air of the restaurant.\
\
\'93Herf I want to go down to see the murder cottage; please take me.\'94\
\
\'93As if I hadn\'92t seen enough of X\'92s marking the spot where the crime was\
committed.\'94\
\
In the hall George Baldwin stepped in front of them. He was pale as\
chalk, his black tie was crooked, the nostrils of his thin nose were\
dilated and marked with little veins of red.\
\
\'93Hello George.\'94\
\
His voice croaked tartly like a klaxon. \'93Elaine I\'92ve been looking for\
you. I must speak to you.... Maybe you think I\'92m joking. I never joke.\'94\
\
\'93Herf excuse me a minute.... Now what is the matter George? Come back\
to the table.\'94\
\
\'93George I was not joking either.... Herf do you mind ordering me a\
taxi?\'94\
\
Baldwin grabbed hold of her wrist. \'93You\'92ve been playing with me long\
enough, do you hear me? Some day some man\'92s going to take a gun\
and shoot you. You think you can play me like all the other little\
sniveling fools.... You\'92re no better than a common prostitute.\'94\
\
\'93Herf I told you to go get me a taxi.\'94\
\
Jimmy bit his lip and went out the front door.\
\
\'93Elaine what are you going to do?\'94\
\
\'93George I will not be bullied.\'94\
\
Something nickel flashed in Baldwin\'92s hand. Gus McNiel stepped forward\
and gripped his wrist with a big red hand.\
\
\'93Gimme that George.... For God\'92s sake man pull yourself together.\'94 He\
shoved the revolver into his pocket. Baldwin tottered to the wall in\
front of him. The trigger finger of his right hand was bleeding.\
\
\'93Here\'92s a taxi,\'94 said Herf looking from one to another of the taut\
white faces.\
\
\'93All right you take the girl home.... No harm done, just a little\
nervous attack, see? No cause for alarm,\'94 McNiel was shouting in\
the voice of a man speaking from a soapbox. The headwaiter and the\
coatgirl were looking at each other uneasily. \'93Didn\'92t nutten happen....\
Gentleman\'92s a little nervous ... overwork you understand,\'94 McNiel\
brought his voice down to a reassuring purr. \'93You just forget it.\'94\
\
As they were getting into the taxi Ellen suddenly said in a little\
child\'92s voice: \'93I forgot we were going down to see the murder\
cottage.... Let\'92s make him wait. I\'92d like to walk up and down in the\
air for a minute.\'94 There was a smell of saltmarshes. The night was\
marbled with clouds and moonlight. The toads in the ditches sounded\
like sleighbells.\
\
\'93Is it far?\'94 she asked.\
\
\'93No it\'92s right down at the corner.\'94\
\
Their feet crackled on gravel then ground softly on macadam. A\
headlight blinded them, they stopped to let the car whir by; the\
exhaust filled their nostrils, faded into the smell of saltmarshes\
again.\
\
It was a peaked gray house with a small porch facing the road screened\
with broken lattice. A big locust shaded it from behind. A policeman\
walked to and fro in front of it whistling gently to himself. A\
mildewed scrap of moon came out from behind the clouds for a minute,\
made tinfoil of a bit of broken glass in a gaping window, picked out\
the little rounded leaves of the locust and rolled like a lost dime\
into a crack in the clouds.\
\
Neither of them said anything. They walked back towards the roadhouse.\
\
\'93Honestly Herf havent you seen Stan?\'94\
\
\'93No I havent an idea where he could be hiding himself.\'94\
\
\'93If you see him tell him I want him to call me up at once.... Herf\
what were those women called who followed the armies in the French\
Revolution?\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s think. Was it cantonni\'e8res?\'94\
\
\'93Something like that ... I\'92d like to do that.\'94\
\
An electric train whistled far to the right of them, rattled nearer and\
faded into whining distance.\
\
Dripping with a tango the roadhouse melted pink like a block of\
icecream. Jimmy was following her into the taxicab.\
\
\'93No I want to be alone, Herf.\'94\
\
\'93But I\'92d like very much to take you home.... I dont like the idea of\
letting you go all alone.\'94\
\
\'93Please as a friend I ask you.\'94\
\
They didnt shake hands. The taxi kicked dust and a rasp of burnt\
gasoline in his face. He stood on the steps reluctant to go back into\
the noise and fume.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Nellie McNiel was alone at the table. In front of her was the chair\
pushed back with his napkin on the back of it where her husband had\
sat. She was staring straight ahead of her; the dancers passed like\
shadows across her eyes. At the other end of the room she saw George\
Baldwin, pale and lean, walk slowly like a sick man to his table. He\
stood beside the table examining his check carefully, paid it and stood\
looking distractedly round the room. He was going to look at her. The\
waiter brought the change on a plate and bowed low. Baldwin swept the\
faces of the dancers with a black glance, turned his back square and\
walked out. Remembering the insupportable sweetness of Chinese lilies,\
she felt her eyes filling with tears. She took her engagement book out\
of her silver mesh bag and went through it hurriedly, marking carets\
with a silver pencil. She looked up after a little while, the tired\
skin of her face in a pucker of spite, and beckoned to a waiter. \'93Will\
you please tell Mr. McNiel that Mrs. McNiel wants to speak to him? He\'92s\
in the bar.\'94\
\
\'93Sarajevo, Sarajevo; that\'92s the place that set the wires on fire,\'94\
Bullock was shouting at the frieze of faces and glasses along the bar.\
\
\'93Say bo,\'94 said Joe O\'92Keefe confidentially to no one in particular, \'93a\
guy works in a telegraph office told me there\'92d been a big seabattle\
off St. John\'92s, Newfoundland and the Britishers had sunk the German\
fleet of forty battleships.\'94\
\
\'93Jiminy that\'92d stop the war right there.\'94\
\
\'93But they aint declared war yet.\'94\
\
\'93How do you know? The cables are so choked up you cant get any news\
through.\'94\
\
\'93Did you see there were four more failures on Wall Street?\'94\
\
\'93Tell me Chicago wheat pit\'92s gone crazy.\'94\
\
\'93They ought to close all the exchanges till this blows over.\'94\
\
\'93Well maybe when the Germans have licked the pants off her England\'92ll\
give Ireland her freedom.\'94\
\
\'93But they are.... Stock market wont be open tomorrow.\'94\
\
\'93If a man\'92s got the capital to cover and could keep his head this here\
would be the time to clean up.\'94\
\
\'93Well Bullock old man I\'92m going home,\'94 said Jimmy. \'93This is my night of\
rest and I ought to be getting after it.\'94\
\
Bullock winked one eye and waved a drunken hand. The voices in Jimmy\'92s\
ears were throbbing elastic roar, near, far, near, far. Dies like a\
dog, march on he said. He\'92d spent all his money but a quarter. Shot\
at sunrise. Declaration of war. Commencement of hostilities. And they\
left him alone in his glory. Leipzig, the Wilderness, Waterloo, where\
the embattled farmers stood and fired the shot heard round ... Cant\
take a taxi, want to walk anyway. Ultimatum. Trooptrains singing to the\
shambles with flowers on their ears. And shame on the false Etruscan\
who lingers in his home when....\
\
As he was walking down the gravel drive to the road an arm hooked in\
his.\
\
\'93Do you mind if I come along? I dont want to stay here.\'94\
\
\'93Sure come ahead Tony I\'92m going to walk.\'94\
\
Herf walked with a long stride, looking straight ahead of him.\
Clouds had darkened the sky where remained the faintest milkiness of\
moonlight. To the right and left there was outside of the violetgray\
cones of occasional arclights black pricked by few lights, ahead the\
glare of streets rose in blurred cliffs yellow and ruddy.\
\
\'93You dont like me do you?\'94 said Tony Hunter breathlessly after a few\
minutes.\
\
Herf slowed his pace. \'93Why I dont know you very well. You seem to me a\
very pleasant person....\'94\
\
\'93Dont lie; there\'92s no reason why you should.... I think I\'92m going to\
kill myself tonight.\'94\
\
\'93Heavens! dont do that.... What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93You have no right to tell me not to kill myself. You dont know\
anything about me. If I was a woman you wouldnt be so indifferent.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s eating you anyway?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going crazy that\'92s all, everything\'92s so horrible. When I first met\
you with Ruth one evening I thought we were going to be friends, Herf.\
You seemed so sympathetic and understanding.... I thought you were like\
me, but now you\'92re getting so callous.\'94\
\
\'93I guess it\'92s the _Times_.... I\'92ll get fired soon, don\'92t worry.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m tired of being poor; I want to make a hit.\'94\
\
\'93Well you\'92re young yet; you must be younger than I am.\'94 Tony didnt\
answer.\
\
They were walking down a broad avenue between two rows of blackened\
frame houses. A streetcar long and yellow hissed rasping past.\
\
\'93Why we must be in Flatbush.\'94\
\
\'93Herf I used to think you were like me, but now I never see you except\
with some woman.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve never told anybody in the world.... By God if you tell\
anybody.... When I was a child I was horribly oversexed, when I was\
about ten or eleven or thirteen.\'94 He was sobbing. As they passed under\
an arclight, Jimmy caught the glisten of the tears on his cheeks. \'93I\
wouldn\'92t tell you this if I wasnt drunk.\'94\
\
\'93But things like that happened to almost everybody when they were\
kids.... You oughtnt to worry about that.\'94\
\
\'93But I\'92m that way now, that\'92s what\'92s so horrible. I cant like women.\
I\'92ve tried and tried.... You see I was caught. I was so ashamed I\
wouldn\'92t go to school for weeks. My mother cried and cried. I\'92m so\
ashamed. I\'92m so afraid people will find out about it. I\'92m always\
fighting to keep it hidden, to hide my feelings.\'94\
\
\'93But it all may be an idea. You may be able to get over it. Go to a\
psychoanalyist.\'94\
\
\'93I cant talk to anybody. It\'92s just that tonight I\'92m drunk. I\'92ve tried\
to look it up in the encyclop\'e6dia.... It\'92s not even in the dictionary.\'94\
He stopped and leaned against a lamppost with his face in his hands.\
\'93It\'92s not even in the dictionary.\'94\
\
Jimmy Herf patted him on the back. \'93Buck up for Heaven\'92s sake. They\'92re\
lots of people in the same boat. The stage is full of them.\'94\
\
\'93I hate them all.... It\'92s not people like that I fall in love with. I\
hate myself. I suppose you\'92ll hate me after tonight.\'94\
\
\'93What nonsense. It\'92s no business of mine.\'94\
\
\'93Now you know why I want to kill myself.... Oh it\'92s not fair Herf, it\'92s\
not fair.... I\'92ve had no luck in my life. I started earning my living\
as soon as I got out of highschool. I used to be bellhop in summer\
hotels. My mother lived in Lakewood and I used to send her everything\
I earned. I\'92ve worked so hard to get where I am. If it were known, if\
there were a scandal and it all came out I\'92d be ruined.\'94\
\
\'93But everybody says that of all juveniles and nobody lets it worry\
them.\'94\
\
\'93Whenever I fail to get a part I think it\'92s on account of that. I hate\
and despise all that kind of men.... I dont want to be a juvenile. I\
want to act. Oh it\'92s hell.... It\'92s hell.\'94\
\
\'93But you\'92re rehearsing now aren\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93A fool show that\'92ll never get beyond Stamford. Now when you hear that\
I\'92ve done it you wont be surprised.\'94\
\
\'93Done what?\'94\
\
\'93Killed myself.\'94\
\
They walked without speaking. It had started to rain. Down the street\
behind the low greenblack shoebox houses there was an occasional\
mothpink flutter of lightning. A wet dusty smell came up from the\
asphalt beaten by the big plunking drops.\
\
\'93There ought to be a subway station near.... Isn\'92t that a blue light\
down there? Let\'92s hurry or we\'92ll get soaked.\'94\
\
\'93Oh hell Tony I\'92d just as soon get soaked as not.\'94 Jimmy took off his\
felt hat and swung it in one hand. The raindrops were cool on his\
forehead, the smell of the rain, of roofs and mud and asphalt, took the\
biting taste of whiskey and cigarettes out of his mouth.\
\
\'93Gosh it\'92s horrible,\'94 he shouted suddenly.\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93All the hushdope about sex. I\'92d never realized it before tonight, the\
full extent of the agony. God you must have a rotten time.... We all of\
us have a rotten time. In your case it\'92s just luck, hellish bad luck.\
Martin used to say: Everything would be so much better if suddenly a\
bell rang and everybody told everybody else honestly what they did\
about it, how they lived, how they loved. It\'92s hiding things makes\
them putrefy. By God it\'92s horrible. As if life wasn\'92t difficult enough\
without that.\'94\
\
\'93Well I\'92m going down into this subway station.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll have to wait hours for a train.\'94\
\
\'93I cant help it I\'92m tired and I dont want to get wet.\'94\
\
\'93Well good night.\'94\
\
\'93Good night Herf.\'94\
\
There was a long rolling thunderclap. It began to rain hard. Jimmy\
rammed his hat down on his head and yanked his coatcollar up. He wanted\
to run along yelling sonsobitches at the top of his lungs. Lightning\
flickered along the staring rows of dead windows. The rain seethed\
along the pavements, against storewindows, on brownstone steps. His\
knees were wet, a slow trickle started down his back, there were chilly\
cascades off his sleeves onto his wrists, his whole body itched and\
tingled. He walked on through Brooklyn. Obsession of all the beds in\
all the pigeonhole bedrooms, tangled sleepers twisted and strangled\
like the roots of potbound plants. Obsession of feet creaking on the\
stairs of lodginghouses, hands fumbling at doorknobs. Obsession of\
pounding temples and solitary bodies rigid on their beds.\
\
    J\'92ai fait trois fois le tour du monde\
    Vive le sang, vive le sang....\
\
Moi monsieur je suis anarchiste.... _And three times round went our\
gallant ship, and three times round went_ ... goddam it between that\
and money ... _and she sank to the bottom of the sea_ ... we\'92re in a\
treadmill for fair.\
\
    J\'92ai fait trois fois le tour du monde\
    Dans mes voy ... ages.\
\
Declaration of war ... rumble of drums ... beefeaters march in red\
after the flashing baton of a drummajor in a hat like a longhaired\
muff, silver knob spins flashing grump, grump, grump ... in the face\
of revolution mondiale. Commencement of hostilities in a long parade\
through the empty rainlashed streets. Extra, extra, extra. Santa Claus\
shoots daughter he has tried to attack. SLAYS SELF WITH SHOTGUN ... put\
the gun under his chin and pulled the trigger with his big toe. The\
stars look down on Fredericktown. Workers of the world, unite. Vive le\
sang, vive le sang.\
\
\'93Golly I\'92m wet,\'94 Jimmy Herf said aloud. As far as he could see the\
street stretched empty in the rain between ranks of dead windows\
studded here and there with violet knobs of arclights. Desperately he\
walked on.\
\
\
\
\
VI. Five Statutory Questions\
\
          _They pair off hurriedly._ STANDING UP IN CARS STRICTLY\
          FORBIDDEN. _The climbing chain grates, grips the cogs;\
          jerkily the car climbs the incline out of the whirring\
          lights, out of the smell of crowds and steamed corn and\
          peanuts, up jerkily grating up through the tall night of\
          September meteors._\
\
          _Sea, marshsmell, the lights of an Iron Steamboat leaving\
          the dock. Across wide violet indigo a lighthouse blinks.\
          Then the swoop. The sea does a flipflop, the lights soar.\
          Her hair in his mouth, his hand in her ribs, thighs grind\
          together._\
\
          _The wind of their falling has snatched their yells, they\
          jerk rattling upwards through the tangled girderstructure.\
          Swoop. Soar. Bubbling lights in a sandwich of darkness and\
          sea. Swoop._ KEEP YOUR SEATS FOR THE NEXT RIDE.\
\
\
\'93Come on in Joe, I\'92ll see if the ole lady kin git us some grub.\'94\
\
\'93Very kind of you ... er ... I\'92m not ... er ... exactly dressed to meet\
a lady you see.\'94\
\
\'93Oh she wont care. She\'92s just my mother; sit down, I\'92ll git her.\'94\
\
Harland sat down on a chair beside the door in the dark kitchen and put\
his hands on his knees. He sat staring at his hands; they were red and\
dirtgrained and trembling, his tongue was like a nutmeg grater from the\
cheap whiskey he had been drinking the last week, his whole body felt\
numb and sodden and sour. He stared at his hands.\
\
Joe O\'92Keefe came back into the kitchen. \'93She\'92s loin down. She says\
there\'92s some soup on the back of the stove.... Here ye are. That\'92ll\
make a man of ye.... Joe you ought to been where I was last night.\
Went out to this here Seaside Inn to take a message to the chief about\
somebody tippin him off that they was going to close the market....\
It was the goddamnedest thing you ever saw in your life. This guy\
who\'92s a wellknown lawyer down town was out in the hall bawlin out his\
gash about something. Jez he looked hard. And then he had a gun out\
an was goin to shoot her or some goddam thing when the chief comes\
up cool as you make em limpin on his stick like he does and took the\
gun away from him an put it in his pocket before anybody\'92d half seen\
what happened.... This guy Baldwin\'92s a frien o his see? It was the\
goddamnedest thing I ever saw. Then he all crumpled up like....\'94\
\
\'93I tell you kid,\'94 said Joe Harland, \'93it gets em all sooner or later....\'94\
\
\'93Hay there eat up strong. You aint eaten enough.\'94\
\
\'93I cant eat very well.\'94\
\
\'93Sure you can.... Say Joe what\'92s the dope about this war business?\'94\
\
\'93I guess they are in for it this time.... I\'92ve known it was coming ever\
since the Agadir incident.\'94\
\
\'93Jez I like to see somebody wallop the pants off England after the way\
they wont give home rule to Ireland.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92d have to help em.... Anyway I dont see how this can last long. The\
men who control international finance wont allow it. After all it\'92s the\
banker who holds the purse strings.\'94\
\
\'93We wouldn\'92t come to the help of England, no sir, not after the way\
they acted in Ireland and in the Revolution and in the Civil War....\'94\
\
\'93Joey you\'92re getting all choked up with that history you\'92re reading up\
in the public library every night.... You follow the stock quotations\
and keep on your toes and dont let em fool you with all this newspaper\
talk about strikes and upheavals and socialism.... I\'92d like to see you\
make good Joey.... Well I guess I\'92d better be going.\'94\
\
\'93Naw stick around awhile, we\'92ll open a bottle of glue.\'94 They heard a\
heavy stumbling in the passage outside the kitchen.\
\
\'93Whossat?\'94\
\
\'93Zat you Joe?\'94 A big towheaded boy with lumpy shoulders and a square\
red face and thickset neck lurched into the room.\
\
\'93What the hell do you think this is?... This is my kid brother Mike.\'94\
\
\'93Well what about it?\'94 Mike stood swaying with his chin on his chest.\
His shoulders bulged against the low ceiling of the kitchen.\
\
\'93Aint he a whale? But for crissake Mike aint I told you not to come\
home when you was drinkin?... He\'92s loible to tear the house down.\'94\
\
\'93I got to come home sometime aint I? Since you got to be a wardheeler\
Joey you been pickin on me worsen the old man. I\'92m glad I aint goin to\
stay round this goddam town long. It\'92s enough to drive a feller cookoo.\
If I can get on some kind of a tub that puts to sea before the _Golden\
Gate_ by God I\'92m going to do it.\'94\
\
\'93Hell I dont mind you stayin here. It\'92s just that I dont like you\
raisin hell all the time, see?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m goin to do what I please, git me?\'94\
\
\'93You get outa here, Mike.... Come back home when you\'92re sober.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to see you put me outa here, git me? I\'92d like to see you put\
me outa here.\'94\
\
Harland got to his feet. \'93Well I\'92m going,\'94 he said. \'93Got to see if I\
can get that job.\'94\
\
Mike was advancing across the kitchen with his fists clenched. Joey\'92s\
jaw set; he picked up a chair.\
\
\'93I\'92ll crown you with it.\'94\
\
\'93O saints and martyrs cant a woman have no peace in her own house?\'94 A\
small grayhaired woman ran screaming between them; she had lustrous\
black eyes set far apart in a face shrunken like a last year\'92s apple;\
she beat the air with worktwisted hands. \'93Shut yer traps both of ye,\
always cursing an fightin round the house like there warnt no God....\
Mike you go upstairs an lay down on your bed till yer sober.\'94\
\
\'93I was jus tellin him that,\'94 said Joey.\
\
She turned on Harland, her voice like the screech of chalk on a\
blackboard. \'93An you git along outa here. I dont allow no drunken bums\
in my house. Git along outa here. I dont care who brought you.\'94\
\
Harland looked at Joey with a little sour smile, shrugged his shoulders\
and went out. \'93Charwoman,\'94 he muttered as he stumbled with stiff aching\
legs along the dusty street of darkfaced brick houses.\
\
The sultry afternoon sun was like a blow on his back. Voices in his\
ears of maids, charwomen, cooks, stenographers, secretaries: Yes sir,\
Mr. Harland, Thank you sir Mr. Harland. Oh sir thank you sir so much\
sir Mr. Harland sir....\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Red buzzing in her eyelids the sunlight wakes her, she sinks back\
into purpling cottonwool corridors of sleep, wakes again, turns over\
yawning, pulls her knees up to her chin to pull the drowsysweet cocoon\
tighter about her. A truck jangles shatteringly along the street, the\
sun lays hot stripes on her back. She yawns desperately and twists\
herself over and lies wide awake with her hands under her head staring\
at the ceiling. From far away through streets and housewalls the long\
moan of a steamboat whistle penetrates to her like a blunt sprout of\
crabgrass nudging through gravel. Ellen sits up shaking her head to get\
rid of a fly blundering about her face. The fly flashes and vanishes\
in the sunlight, but somewhere in her there lingers a droning pang,\
unaccountable, something left over from last night\'92s bitter thoughts.\
But she is happy and wide awake and it\'92s early. She gets up and wanders\
round the room in her nightgown.\
\
Where the sun hits it the hardwood floor is warm to the soles of her\
feet. Sparrows chirp on the windowledge. From upstairs comes the sound\
of a sewingmachine. When she gets out of the bath her body feels\
smoothwhittled and tense; she rubs herself with a towel, telling off\
the hours of the long day ahead; take a walk through junky littered\
downtown streets to that pier on the East River where they pile the\
great beams of mahogany, breakfast all alone at the Lafayette, coffee\
and crescent rolls and sweet butter, go shopping at Lord & Taylor\'92s\
early before everything is stuffy and the salesgirls wilted, have lunch\
with ... Then the pain that has been teasing all night wells up and\
bursts. \'93Stan, Stan for God\'92s sake,\'94 she says aloud. She sits before\
her mirror staring in the black of her own dilating pupils.\
\
She dresses in a hurry and goes out, walks down Fifth Avenue and\
east along Eighth Street without looking to the right or left. The\
sun already hot simmers slatily on the pavements, on plateglass, on\
dustmarbled enameled signs. Men\'92s and women\'92s faces as they pass her\
are rumpled and gray like pillows that have been too much slept on.\
After crossing Lafayette Street roaring with trucks and delivery wagons\
there is a taste of dust in her mouth, particles of grit crunch between\
her teeth. Further east she passes pushcarts; men are wiping off the\
marble counters of softdrink stands, a grindorgan fills the street with\
shiny jostling coils of the _Blue Danube_, acrid pungence spreads from\
a picklestand. In Tompkins Square yelling children mill about the soggy\
asphalt. At her feet a squirming heap of small boys, dirty torn shirts,\
slobbering mouths, punching, biting, scratching; a squalid smell like\
moldy bread comes from them. Ellen all of a sudden feels her knees weak\
under her. She turns and walks back the way she came.\
\
The sun is heavy like his arm across her back, strokes her bare forearm\
the way his fingers stroke her, it\'92s his breath against her cheek.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Nothing but the five statutory questions,\'94 said Ellen to the rawboned\
man with big sagging eyes like oysters into whose long shirtfront she\
was talking.\
\
\'93And so the decree is granted?\'94 he asked solemnly.\
\
\'93Surely in an uncontested ...\'94\
\
\'93Well I\'92m very sorry to hear it as an old family friend of both\
parties.\'94\
\
\'93Look here Dick, honestly I\'92m very fond of Jojo. I owe him a great\
deal.... He\'92s a very fine person in many ways, but it absolutely had to\
be.\'94\
\
\'93You mean there is somebody else?\'94\
\
She looked up at him with bright eyes and half nodded.\
\
\'93Oh but divorce is a very serious step my dear young lady.\'94\
\
\'93Oh not so serious as all that.\'94\
\
They saw Harry Goldweiser coming towards them across the big walnut\
paneled room. She suddenly raised her voice. \'93They say that this battle\
of the Marne is going to end the war.\'94\
\
Harry Goldweiser took her hand between his two pudgy-palmed hands and\
bowed over it. \'93It\'92s very charming of you Elaine to come and keep a lot\
of old midsummer bachelors from boring each other to death. Hello Snow\
old man, how\'92s things?\'94\
\
\'93Yes how is it we have the pleasure of still finding you here?\'94\
\
\'93Oh various things have held me.... Anyway I hate summer resorts.\'94\
\'93Nowhere prettier than Long Beach anyway.... Why Bar Harbor, I wouldnt\
go to Bar Harbor if you gave me a million ... a cool million.\'94\
\
Mr. Snow let out a gruff sniff. \'93Seems to me I\'92ve heard you been going\
into the realestate game down there, Goldweiser.\'94\
\
\'93I bought myself a cottage that\'92s all. It\'92s amazing you cant even buy\
yourself a cottage without every newsboy on Times Square knowing about\
it. Let\'92s go in and eat; my sister\'92ll be right here.\'94 A dumpy woman in\
a spangled dress came in after they had sat down to table in the big\
antlerhung diningroom; she was pigeonbreasted and had a sallow skin.\
\
\'93Oh Miss Oglethorpe I\'92m so glad to see you,\'94 she twittered in a little\
voice like a parrakeet\'92s. \'93I\'92ve often seen you and thought you were the\
loveliest thing.... I did my best to get Harry to bring you up to see\
me.\'94\
\
\'93This is my sister Rachel,\'94 said Goldweiser to Ellen without getting\
up. \'93She keeps house for me.\'94\
\
\'93I wish you\'92d help me, Snow, to induce Miss Oglethorpe to take that\
part in The Zinnia Girl.... Honest it was just written for you.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s such a small part ...\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not a lead exactly, but from the point of view of your reputation\
as a versatile and exquisite artist, it\'92s the best thing in the show.\'94\
\
\'93Will you have a little more fish, Miss Oglethorpe?\'94 piped Miss\
Goldweiser.\
\
Mr. Snow sniffed. \'93There\'92s no great acting any more: Booth, Jefferson,\
Mansfield ... all gone. Nowadays it\'92s all advertising; actors and\
actresses are put on the market like patent medicines. Isn\'92t it the\
truth Elaine?... Advertising, advertising.\'94\
\
\'93But that isn\'92t what makes success.... If you could do it with\
advertising every producer in New York\'92d be a millionaire,\'94 burst in\
Goldweiser. \'93It\'92s the mysterious occult force that grips the crowds on\
the street and makes them turn in at a particular theater that makes\
the receipts go up at a particular boxoffice, do you understand me?\
Advertising wont do it, good criticism wont do it, maybe it\'92s genius\
maybe it\'92s luck but if you can give the public what it wants at that\
time and at that place you have a hit. Now that\'92s what Elaine gave us\
in this last show.... She established contact with the audience. It\
might have been the greatest play in the world acted by the greatest\
actors in the world and fallen a flat failure.... And I dont know how\
you do it, nobody dont know how you do it.... You go to bed one night\
with your house full of paper and you wake up the next morning with a\
howling success. The producer cant control it any more than the weather\
man can control the weather. Aint I tellin the truth?\'94\
\
\'93Ah the taste of the New York public has sadly degenerated since the\
old days of Wallack\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93But there have been some beautiful plays,\'94 chirped Miss Goldweiser.\
\
The long day love was crisp in the curls ... the dark curls ...\
broken in the dark steel light ... hurls ... high O God high into the\
bright ... She was cutting with her fork in the crisp white heart\
of a lettuce. She was saying words while quite other words spilled\
confusedly inside her like a broken package of beads. She sat looking\
at a picture of two women and two men eating at a table in a high\
paneled room under a shivering crystal chandelier. She looked up from\
her plate to find Miss Goldweiser\'92s little birdeyes kindly querulous\
fixed hard on her face.\
\
\'93Oh yes New York is really pleasanter in midsummer than any other time;\
there\'92s less hurry and bustle.\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes that\'92s quite true Miss Goldweiser.\'94 Ellen flashed a sudden\
smile round the table.... All the long day love Was crisp in the curls\
of his high thin brow, Flashed in his eyes in dark steel light....\
\
In the taxi Goldweiser\'92s broad short knees pressed against hers; his\
eyes were full of furtive spiderlike industry weaving a warm sweet\
choking net about her face and neck. Miss Goldweiser had relapsed\
pudgily into the seat beside her. Dick Snow was holding an unlighted\
cigar in his mouth, rolling it with his tongue. Ellen tried to remember\
exactly how Stan looked, his polevaulter\'92s tight slenderness; she\
couldn\'92t remember his face entire, she saw his eyes, lips, an ear.\
\
Times Square was full of juggled colored lights, crisscrossed\
corrugations of glare. They went up in the elevator at the Astor. Ellen\
followed Miss Goldweiser across the roofgarden among the tables. Men\
and women in evening dress, in summer muslins and light suits turned\
and looked after her, like sticky tendrils of vines glances caught\
at her as she passed. The orchestra was playing _In My Harem_. They\
arranged themselves at a table.\
\
\'93Shall we dance?\'94 asked Goldweiser.\
\
She smiled a wry broken smile in his face as she let him put his arm\
round her back. His big ear with solemn lonely hairs on it was on the\
level of her eyes.\
\
\'93Elaine,\'94 he was breathing into her ear, \'93honest I thought I was a\
wise guy.\'94 He caught his breath ... \'93but I aint.... You\'92ve got me goin\
little girl and I hate to admit it.... Why cant you like me a little\
bit? I\'92d like ... us to get married as soon as you get your decree....\
Wouldn\'92t you be kinder nice to me once in a while...? I\'92d do anything\
for you, you know that.... There are lots of things in New York I could\
do for you ...\'94 The music stopped. They stood apart under a palm.\
\'93Elaine come over to my office and sign that contract. I had Ferrari\
wait.... We can be back in fifteen minutes.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got to think it over ... I never do anything without sleeping on\
it.\'94\
\
\'93Gosh you drive a feller wild.\'94\
\
Suddenly she remembered Stan\'92s face altogether, he was standing in\
front of her with a bow tie crooked in his soft shirt, his hair\
rumpled, drinking again.\
\
\'93Oh Ellie I\'92m so glad to see you....\'94\
\
\'93This is Mr. Emery, Mr. Goldweiser....\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been on the most exordinately spectacular trip, honestly you\
should have come.... We went to Montreal and Quebec and came back\
through Niagara Falls and we never drew a sober breath from the time\
we left little old New York till they arrested us for speeding on the\
Boston Post Road, did we Pearline?\'94 Ellen was staring at a girl who\
stood groggily behind Stan with a small flowered straw hat pulled\
down over a pair of eyes the blue of watered milk. \'93Ellie this is\
Pearline.... Isn\'92t it a fine name? I almost split when she told me what\
it was.... But you dont know the joke.... We got so tight in Niagara\
Falls that when we came to we found we were married.... And we have\
pansies on our marriage license....\'94\
\
Ellen couldnt see his face. The orchestra, the jangle of voices, the\
clatter of plates spouted spiraling louder and louder about her ...\
\
    And the ladies of the harem\
    Knew exactly how to wear \'92em\
    In O-riental Bagdad long ago....\
\
\'93Good night Stan.\'94 Her voice was gritty in her mouth, she heard the\
words very clearly when she spoke them.\
\
\'93Oh Ellie I wish you\'92d come partying with us....\'94\
\
\'93Thanks ... thanks.\'94\
\
She started to dance again with Harry Goldweiser. The roofgarden was\
spinning fast, then less fast. The noise ebbed sickeningly. \'93Excuse\
me a minute Harry,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92ll come back to the table.\'94 In the\
ladies\'92 room she let herself down carefully on the plush sofa. She\
looked at her face in the round mirror of her vanitycase. From black\
pinholes her pupils spread blurring till everything was black.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Jimmy Herf\'92s legs were tired; he had been walking all afternoon. He sat\
down on a bench beside the Aquarium and looked out over the water. The\
fresh September wind gave a glint of steel to the little crisp waves of\
the harbor and to the slateblue smutted sky. A big white steamer with a\
yellow funnel was passing in front of the statue of Liberty. The smoke\
from the tug at the bow came out sharply scalloped like paper. In spite\
of the encumbering wharfhouses the end of Manhattan seemed to him like\
the prow of a barge pushing slowly and evenly down the harbor. Gulls\
wheeled and cried. He got to his feet with a jerk. \'93Oh hell I\'92ve got to\
do something.\'94\
\
He stood a second with tense muscles balanced on the balls of his feet.\
The ragged man looking at the photogravures of a Sunday paper had a\
face he had seen before. \'93Hello,\'94 he said vaguely. \'93I knew who you were\
all along,\'94 said the man without holding out his hand. \'93You\'92re Lily\
Herf\'92s boy.... I thought you werent going to speak to me.... No reason\
why you should.\'94\
\
\'93Oh of course you must be Cousin Joe Harland.... I\'92m awfully glad to\
see you.... I\'92ve often wondered about you.\'94\
\
\'93Wondered what?\'94\
\
\'93Oh I dunno ... funny you never think of your relatives as being\
people like yourself, do you?\'94 Herf sat down in the seat again. \'93Will\
you have a cigarette.... It\'92s only a Camel.\'94\
\
\'93Well I dont mind if I do.... What\'92s your business Jimmy? You dont mind\
if I call you that do you?\'94 Jimmy Herf lit a match; it went out, lit\
another and held it for Harland. \'93That\'92s the first tobacco I\'92ve had in\
a week ... Thank you.\'94\
\
Jimmy glanced at the man beside him. The long hollow of his gray cheek\
made a caret with the deep crease that came from the end of his mouth.\
\'93You think I\'92m pretty much of a wreck dont you?\'94 spat Harland. \'93You\'92re\
sorry you sat down aint you? You\'92re sorry you had a mother who brought\
you up a gentleman instead of a cad like the rest of \'92em....\'94\
\
\'93Why I\'92ve got a job as a reporter on the _Times_ ... a hellish rotten\
job and I\'92m sick of it,\'94 said Jimmy, drawling out his words.\
\
\'93Dont talk like that Jimmy, you\'92re too young.... You\'92ll never get\
anywhere with that attitude.\'94\
\
\'93Well suppose I dont want to get anywhere.\'94\
\
\'93Poor dear Lily was so proud of you.... She wanted you to be a great\
man, she was so ambitious for you.... You dont want to forget your\
mother Jimmy. She was the only friend I had in the whole damn family.\'94\
\
Jimmy laughed. \'93I didnt say I wasnt ambitious.\'94\
\
\'93For God\'92s sake, for your dear mother\'92s sake be careful what you do.\
You\'92re just starting out in life ... everything\'92ll depend on the next\
couple of years. Look at me.\'94\
\
\'93Well the Wizard of Wall Street made a pretty good thing of it I\'92ll\
say.... No it\'92s just that I dont like to take all the stuff you have to\
take from people in this goddam town. I\'92m sick of playing up to a lot\
of desk men I dont respect.... What are you doing Cousin Joe?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t ask me....\'94\
\
\'93Look, do you see that boat with the red funnels? She\'92s French. Look,\
they are pulling the canvas off the gun on her stern.... I want to go\
to the war.... The only trouble is I\'92m very poor at wrangling things.\'94\
\
Harland was gnawing his upper lip; after a silence he burst out in a\
hoarse broken voice. \'93Jimmy I\'92m going to ask you to do something for\
Lily\'92s sake.... Er ... have you any ... er ... any change with you? By\
a rather unfortunate ... coincidence I have not eaten very well for the\
last two or three days.... I\'92m a little weak, do you understand?\'94\
\
\'93Why yes I was just going to suggest that we go have a cup of coffee\
or tea or something.... I know a fine Syrian restaurant on Washington\
street.\'94\
\
\'93Come along then,\'94 said Harland, getting up stiffly. \'93You\'92re sure you\
don\'92t mind being seen with a scarecrow like this?\'94\
\
The newspaper fell out of his hand. Jimmy stooped to pick it up. A face\
made out of modulated brown blurs gave him a twinge as if something had\
touched a nerve in a tooth. No it wasnt, she doesnt look like that, yes\
TALENTED YOUNG ACTRESS SCORES HIT IN THE ZINNIA GIRL....\
\
\'93Thanks, dont bother, I found it there,\'94 said Harland. Jimmy dropped\
the paper; she fell face down.\
\
\'93Pretty rotten photographs they have dont they?\'94\
\
\'93It passes the time to look at them, I like to keep up with what\'92s\
going on in New York a little bit.... A cat may look at a king you\
know, a cat may look at a king.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I just meant that they were badly taken.\'94\
\
\
\
\
VII. Rollercoaster\
\
          _The leaden twilight weighs on the dry limbs of an old\
          man walking towards Broadway. Round the Nedick\'92s stand at\
          the corner something clicks in his eyes. Broken doll in\
          the ranks of varnished articulated dolls he plods up with\
          drooping head into the seethe and throb into the furnace\
          of beaded lettercut light. \'93I remember when it was all\
          meadows,\'94 he grumbles to the little boy._\
\
\
Louis Expresso Association, the red letters on the placard jig before\
Stan\'92s eyes. ANNUAL DANCE. Young men and girls going in. _Two by two\
the elephant And the kangaroo._ The boom and jangle of an orchestra\
seeping out through the swinging doors of the hall. Outside it is\
raining. _One more river, O there\'92s one more river to cross._ He\
straightens the lapels of his coat, arranges his mouth soberly, pays\
two dollars and goes into a big resounding hall hung with red white\
and blue bunting. Reeling, so he leans for a while against the wall.\
_One more river_ ... The dancefloor full of jogging couples rolls\
like the deck of a ship. The bar is more stable. \'93Gus McNiel\'92s here,\'94\
everybody\'92s saying \'93Good old Gus.\'94 Big hands slap broad backs, mouths\
roar black in red faces. Glasses rise and tip glinting, rise and tip in\
a dance. A husky beetfaced man with deepset eyes and curly hair limps\
through the bar leaning on a stick. \'93How\'92s a boy Gus?\'94\
\
\'93Yay dere\'92s de chief.\'94\
\
\'93Good for old man McNiel come at last.\'94\
\
\'93Howde do Mr. McNiel?\'94 The bar quiets down.\
\
Gus McNiel waves his stick in the air. \'93Attaboy fellers, have a good\
time.... Burke ole man set the company up to a drink on me.\'94 \'93Dere\'92s\
Father Mulvaney wid him too. Good for Father Mulvaney.... He\'92s a prince\
that feller is.\'94\
\
    For he\'92s a jolly good fellow\
    That nobody can deny ...\
\
Broad backs deferentially hunched follow the slowly pacing group out\
among the dancers. _O the big baboon by the light of the moon is\
combing his auburn hair._ \'93Wont you dance, please?\'94 The girl turns a\
white shoulder and walks off.\
\
    I am a bachelor and I live all alone\
    And I work at the weaver\'92s trade....\
\
Stan finds himself singing at his own face in a mirror. One of his\
eyebrows is joining his hair, the other\'92s an eyelash.... \'93No I\'92m not\
bejases I\'92m a married man.... Fight any man who says I\'92m not a married\
man and a citizen of City of New York, County of New York, State of\
New York....\'94 He\'92s standing on a chair making a speech, banging his\
fist into his hand. \'93Friends Roooomans and countrymen, lend me five\
bucks.... We come to muzzle C\'e6sar not to shaaaave him.... According to\
the Constitution of the City of New York, County of New York, State of\
New York and duly attested and subscribed before a district attorney\
according to the provisions of the act of July 13th 1888.... To hell\
with the Pope.\'94\
\
\'93Hey quit dat.\'94 \'93Fellers lets trow dis guy out.... He aint one o de\
boys.... Dunno how he got in here. He\'92s drunk as a pissant.\'94 Stan jumps\
with his eyes closed into a thicket of fists. He\'92s slammed in the eye,\
in the jaw, shoots like out of a gun out into the drizzling cool silent\
street. Ha ha ha.\
\
    For I am a bachelor and I live all alone\
    And there\'92s one more river to cross\
    One more river to Jordan\
    One more river to cross ...\
\
It was blowing cold in his face and he was sitting on the front of a\
ferryboat when he came to. His teeth were chattering, he was shivering\
... \'93I\'92m having DT\'92s. Who am I? Where am I? City of New York, State\
of New York.... Stanwood Emery age twentytwo occupation student....\
Pearline Anderson twentyone occupation actress. To hell with her. Gosh\
I\'92ve got fortynine dollars and eight cents and where the hell have I\
been? And nobody rolled me. Why I havent got the DT\'92s at all. I feel\
fine, only a little delicate. All I need\'92s a little drink, dont you?\
Hello, I thought there was somebody here. I guess I\'92d better shut up.\'94\
\
    Fortynine dollars ahanging on the wall\
    Fortynine dollars ahanging on the wall\
\
Across the zinc water the tall walls, the birchlike cluster of downtown\
buildings shimmered up the rosy morning like a sound of horns through\
a chocolatebrown haze. As the boat drew near the buildings densened\
to a granite mountain split with knifecut canyons. The ferry passed\
close to a tubby steamer that rode at anchor listing towards Stan so\
that he could see all the decks. An Ellis Island tug was alongside. A\
stale smell came from the decks packed with upturned faces like a load\
of melons. Three gulls wheeled complaining. A gull soared in a spiral,\
white wings caught the sun, the gull skimmed motionless in whitegold\
light. The rim of the sun had risen above the plumcolored band of\
clouds behind East New York. A million windows flashed with light. A\
rasp and a humming came from the city.\
\
    The animals went in two by two\
    The elephant and the kangaroo\
    There\'92s one more river to Jordan\
    One more river to cross\
\
In the whitening light tinfoil gulls wheeled above broken boxes,\
spoiled cabbageheads, orangerinds heaving slowly between the splintered\
plank walls, the green spumed under the round bow as the ferry skidding\
on the tide, gulped the broken water, crashed, slid, settled slowly\
into the slip. Handwinches whirled with jingle of chains, gates folded\
upward. Stan stepped across the crack, staggered up the manuresmelling\
wooden tunnel of the ferryhouse out into the sunny glass and benches\
of the Battery. He sat down on a bench, clasped his hands round his\
knees to keep them from shaking so. His mind went on jingling like a\
mechanical piano.\
\
    With bells on her fingers and rings on her toes\
    Shall ride a white lady upon a great horse\
    And she shall make mischief wherever she goes ...\
\
There was Babylon and Nineveh, they were built of brick. Athens was\
goldmarble columns. Rome was held up on broad arches of rubble. In\
Constantinople the minarets flame like great candles round the Golden\
Horn.... O there\'92s one more river to cross. Steel glass, tile, concrete\
will be the materials of the skyscrapers. Crammed on the narrow island\
the millionwindowed buildings will jut, glittering pyramid on pyramid,\
white cloudsheads piled above a thunderstorm ...\
\
    And it rained forty days and it rained forty nights\
    And it didn\'92t stop till Christmas\
    And the only man who survived the flood\
    Was longlegged Jack of the Isthmus....\
\
Kerist I wish I was a skyscraper.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The lock spun round in a circle to keep out the key. Dexterously Stan\
bided his time and caught it. He shot headlong through the open door\
and down the long hall shouting Pearline into the livingroom. It\
smelled funny, Pearline\'92s smell, to hell with it. He picked up a chair;\
the chair wanted to fly, it swung round his head and crashed into the\
window, the glass shivered and tinkled. He looked out through the\
window. The street stood up on end. A hookandladder and a fire engine\
were climbing it licketysplit trailing a droning sirenshriek. _Fire\
fire, pour on water, Scotland\'92s burning._ A thousand dollar fire, a\
hundredthousand dollar fire, a million dollar fire. Skyscrapers go up\
like flames, in flames, flames. He spun back into the room. The table\
turned a somersault. The chinacloset jumped on the table. Oak chairs\
climbed on top to the gas jet. _Pour on water, Scotland\'92s burning._\
Don\'92t like the smell in this place in the City of New York, County of\
New York, State of New York. He lay on his back on the floor of the\
revolving kitchen and laughed and laughed. The only man who survived\
the flood rode a great lady on a white horse. Up in flames, up, up.\
Kerosene whispered a greasyfaced can in the corner of the kitchen.\
_Pour on water._ He stood swaying on the crackling upside down chairs\
on the upside down table. The kerosene licked him with a white cold\
tongue. He pitched, grabbed the gasjet, the gasjet gave way, he lay\
in a puddle on his back striking matches, wet wouldn\'92t light. A match\
spluttered, lit; he held the flame carefully between his hands.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Oh yes but my husband\'92s awfully ambitious.\'94 Pearline was telling the\
blue gingham lady in the grocery-store. \'93Likes to have a good time an\
all that but he\'92s much more ambitious than anybody I every knew. He\'92s\
goin to get his old man to send us abroad so he can study architecture.\
He wants to be an architect.\'94\
\
\'93My that\'92ll be nice for you wont it? A trip like that ... Anything else\
miss?\'94 \'93No I guess I didn\'92t forget anythin.... If it was anybody else\
I\'92d be worryin about him. I haven\'92t seen him for two days. Had to go\
and see his dad I guess.\'94\
\
\'93And you just newly wed too.\'94\
\
\'93I wouldnt be tellin ye if I thought there was anythin wrong, would\
I? No he\'92s playin straight all right.... Well goodby Mrs. Robinson.\'94\
She tucked her packages under one arm and swinging her bead bag in the\
free hand walked down the street. The sun was still warm although\
there was a tang of fall in the wind. She gave a penny to a blind man\
cranking the Merry Widow waltz out of a grindorgan. Still she\'92d better\
bawl him out a little when he came home, might get to doing it often.\
She turned into 200th Street. People were looking out of windows,\
there was a crowd gathering. It was a fire. She sniffed the singed\
air. It gave her gooseflesh; she loved seeing fires. She hurried. Why\
it\'92s outside our building. Outside our apartmenthouse. Smoke dense as\
gunnysacks rolled out of the fifthstory window. She suddenly found\
herself all atremble. The colored elevatorboy ran up to her. His face\
was green. \'93Oh it\'92s in our apartment\'94 she shrieked, \'93and the furniture\
just came a week ago. Let me get by.\'94 The packages fell from her, a\
bottle of cream broke on the sidewalk. A policeman stood in her way,\
she threw herself at him and pounded on the broad blue chest. She\
couldnt stop shrieking. \'93That\'92s all right little lady, that\'92s all\
right,\'94 he kept booming in a deep voice. As she beat her head against\
it she could feel his voice rumbling in his chest. \'93They\'92re bringing\
him down, just overcome by smoke that\'92s all, just overcome by smoke.\'94\
\
\'93O Stanwood my husband,\'94 she shrieked. Everything was blacking out. She\
grabbed at two bright buttons on the policeman\'92s coat and fainted.\
\
\
\
\
VIII. One More River to Jordan\
\
          _A man is shouting from a soapbox at Second Avenue and\
          Houston in front of the Cosmopolitan Caf\'e8: \'93... these\
          fellers, men ... wageslaves like I was ... are sittin on\
          your chest ... they\'92re takin the food outen your mouths.\
          Where\'92s all the pretty girls I used to see walkin up and\
          down the bullevard? Look for em in the uptown cabarets....\
          They squeeze us dry friends ... feller workers, slaves\
          I\'92d oughter say ... they take our work and our ideers and\
          our women.... They build their Plaza Hotels and their\
          millionaire\'92s clubs and their million dollar theayters and\
          their battleships and what do they leave us?... They leave\
          us shopsickness an the rickets and a lot of dirty streets\
          full of garbage cans.... You look pale you fellers....\
          You need blood.... Why dont you get some blood in your\
          veins?... Back in Russia the poor people ... not so much\
          poorer\'92n we are ... believe in wampires, things come suck\
          your blood at night.... That\'92s what Capitalism is, a\
          wampire that sucks your blood ... day ... and ... night.\'94_\
\
          _It is beginning to snow. The flakes are giltedged where\
          they pass the streetlamp. Through the plate glass the\
          Cosmopolitan Caf\'e8 full of blue and green opal rifts of\
          smoke looks like a muddy aquarium; faces blob whitely round\
          the tables like illassorted fishes. Umbrellas begin to bob\
          in clusters up the snowmottled street. The orator turns up\
          his collar and walks briskly east along Houston, holding\
          the muddy soapbox away from his trousers._\
\
\
Faces, hats, hands, newspapers jiggled in the fetid roaring subway car\
like corn in a popper. The downtown express passed clattering in yellow\
light, window telescoping window till they overlapped like scales.\
\
\'93Look George,\'94 said Sandbourne to George Baldwin who hung on a strap\
beside him, \'93you can see Fitzgerald\'92s contraction.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be seeing the inside of an undertaking parlor if I dont get out\
of this subway soon.\'94\
\
\'93It does you plutocrats good now and then to see how the other half\
travels.... Maybe it\'92ll make you induce some of your little playmates\
down at Tammany Hall to stop squabbling and give us wageslaves a little\
transportation.... cristamighty I could tell em a thing or two.... My\
idea\'92s for a series of endless moving platforms under Fifth Avenue.\'94\
\
\'93Did you cook that up when you were in hospital Phil?\'94\
\
\'93I cooked a whole lot of things up while I was in hospital.\'94\
\
\'93Look here lets get out at Grand Central and walk. I cant stand\
this.... I\'92m not used to it.\'94\
\
\'93Sure ... I\'92ll phone Elsie I\'92ll be a little late to dinner.... Not\
often I get to see you nowadays George ... Gee it\'92s like the old days.\'94\
\
In a tangled clot of men and women, arms, legs, hats aslant on\
perspiring necks, they were pushed out on the platform. They walked up\
Lexington Avenue quiet in the claretmisted afterglow.\
\
\'93But Phil how did you come to step out in front of a truck that way?\'94\
\
\'93Honestly George I dunno.... The last I remember is craning my neck to\
look at a terribly pretty girl went by in a taxicab and there I was\
drinking icewater out of a teapot in the hospital.\'94\
\
\'93Shame on you Phil at your age.\'94\
\
\'93Cristamighty dont I know it? But I\'92m not the only one.\'94\
\
\'93It is funny the way a thing like that comes over you.... Why what have\
you heard about me?\'94\
\
\'93Gosh George dont get nervous, it\'92s all right.... I\'92ve seen her in The\
Zinnia Girl.... She walks away with it. That other girl who\'92s the star\
dont have a show.\'94\
\
\'93Look here Phil if you hear any rumors about Miss Oglethorpe for\
Heaven\'92s sake shut them up. It\'92s so damn silly you cant go out to tea\
with a woman without everybody starting their dirty gabble all over\
town.... By God I will not have a scandal, I dont care what happens.\'94\
\
\'93Say hold your horses George.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m in a very delicate position downtown just at the moment that\'92s\
all.... And then Cecily and I have at last reached a modus vivendi....\
I wont have it disturbed.\'94\
\
They walked along in silence.\
\
Sandbourne walked with his hat in his hand. His hair was almost white\
but his eyebrows were still dark and bushy. Every few steps he changed\
the length of his stride as if it hurt him to walk. He cleared his\
throat. \'93George you were asking me if I\'92d cooked up any schemes when I\
was in hospital.... Do you remember years ago old man Specker used to\
talk about vitreous and superenameled tile? Well I\'92ve been workin on\
his formula out at Hollis.... A friend of mine there has a two thousand\
degree oven he bakes pottery in. I think it can be put on a commercial\
basis.... Man it would revolutionize the whole industry. Combined with\
concrete it would enormously increase the flexibility of the materials\
at the architects\'92 disposal. We could make tile any color, size or\
finish.... Imagine this city when all the buildins instead of bein\
dirty gray were ornamented with vivid colors. Imagine bands of scarlet\
round the entablatures of skyscrapers. Colored tile would revolutionize\
the whole life of the city.... Instead of fallin back on the orders or\
on gothic or romanesque decorations we could evolve new designs, new\
colors, new forms. If there was a little color in the town all this\
hardshell inhibited life\'92d break down.... There\'92d be more love an less\
divorce....\'94\
\
Baldwin burst out laughing. \'93You tell em Phil.... I\'92ll talk to you\
about that sometime. You must come up to dinner when Cecily\'92s there and\
tell us about it.... Why wont Parkhurst do anything?\'94\
\
\'93I wouldnt let him in on it. He\'92d cotton on to the proposition and\
leave me out in the cold once he had the formula. I wouldn\'92t trust him\
with a rubber nickel.\'94\
\
\'93Why doesnt he take you into partnership Phil?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s got me where he wants me anyway.... He knows I do all the work in\
his goddamned office. He knows too that I\'92m too cranky to make out with\
most people. He\'92s a slick article.\'94\
\
\'93Still I should think you could put it up to him.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s got me where he wants me and he knows it, so I continue doin the\
work while he amasses the coin.... I guess it\'92s logical. If I had more\
money I\'92d just spend it. I\'92m just shiftless.\'94\
\
\'93But look here man you\'92re not so much older than I am.... You\'92ve still\
got a career ahead of you.\'94\
\
\'93Sure nine hours a day draftin.... Gosh I wish you\'92d go into this tile\
business with me.\'94\
\
Baldwin stopped at a corner and slapped his hand on the briefcase he\
was carrying. \'93Now Phil you know I\'92d be very glad to give you a hand\
in any way I could.... But just at the moment my financial situation\
is terribly involved. I\'92ve gotten into some rather rash entanglements\
and Heaven knows how I\'92m going to get out of them.... That\'92s why I\
cant have a scandal or a divorce or anything. You dont understand how\
complicatedly things interact.... I couldnt take up anything new, not\
for a year at least. This war in Europe has made things very unsettled\
downtown. Anything\'92s liable to happen.\'94\
\
\'93All right. Good night George.\'94\
\
Sandbourne turned abruptly on his heel and walked down the avenue\
again. He was tired and his legs ached. It was almost dark. On the way\
back to the station the grimy brick and brownstone blocks dragged past\
monotonously like the days of his life.\
\
Under the skin of her temples iron clamps tighten till her head will\
mash like an egg; she begins to walk with long strides up and down the\
room that bristles with itching stuffiness; spotty colors of pictures,\
carpets, chairs wrap about her like a choking hot blanket. Outside\
the window the backyards are striped with blue and lilac and topaz\
of a rainy twilight. She opens the window. No time to get tight like\
the twilight, Stan said. The telephone reached out shivering beady\
tentacles of sound. She slams the window down. O hell cant they give\
you any peace?\
\
\'93Why Harry I didnt know you were back.... Oh I wonder if I can....\
Oh yes I guess I can. Come along by after the theater.... Isnt that\
wonderful? You must tell me all about it.\'94 She no sooner puts the\
receiver down than the bell clutches at her again. \'93Hello.... No I\
dont.... Oh yes maybe I do.... When did you get back?\'94 She laughed\
a tinkling telephone laugh. \'93But Howard I\'92m terribly busy.... Yes I\
am honestly.... Have you been to the show? Well sometime come round\
after a performance.... I\'92m so anxious to hear about your trip ... you\
know ... Goodby Howard.\'94\
\
A walk\'92ll make me feel better. She sits at her dressingtable and shakes\
her hair down about her shoulders. \'93It\'92s such a hellish nuisance, I\'92d\
like to cut it all off ... spreads apace. The shadow of white Death....\
Oughtnt to stay up so late, those dark circles under my eyes.... And\
at the door, Invisible Corruption.... If I could only cry; there are\
people who can cry their eyes out, really cry themselves blind ...\
Anyway the divorce\'92ll go through....\'94\
\
    Far from the shore, far from the trembling throng\
    Whose sails were never to the tempest given\
\
Gosh it\'92s six o\'92clock already. She starts walking up and down the room\
again. I am borne darkly fearfully afar.... The phone rings. \'93Hello....\
Yes this is Miss Oglethorpe.... Why hello Ruth, why I haven\'92t seen you\
for ages, since Mrs. Sunderland\'92s.... Oh, do I\'92d love to see you. Come\
by and we\'92ll have a bite to eat on the way to the theater.... It\'92s the\
third floor.\'94\
\
She rings off and gets a raincape out of a closet. The smell of furs\
and mothballs and dresses clings in her nostrils. She throws up the\
window again and breathes deep of the wet air full of the cold rot of\
autumn. She hears the burring boom of a big steamer from the river.\
Darkly, fearfully afar from this nonsensical life, from this fuzzy\
idiocy and strife; a man can take a ship for his wife, but a girl. The\
telephone is shiveringly beadily ringing, ringing.\
\
The buzzer burrs at the same time. Ellen presses the button to click\
the latch. \'93Hello.... No, I\'92m very sorry I\'92m afraid you\'92ll have to\
tell me who it is. Why Larry Hopkins I thought you were in Tokyo....\
They havent moved you again have they? Why of course we must see each\
other.... My dear it\'92s simply horrible but I\'92m all dated up for two\
weeks.... Look I\'92m sort of crazy tonight. You call up tomorrow at\
twelve and I\'92ll try to shift things around.... Why of course I\'92ve\
got to see you immediately you funny old thing.\'94 ... Ruth Prynne and\
Cassandra Wilkins come in shaking the water off their umbrellas. \'93Well\
goodby Larry.... Why it\'92s so so sweet of both of you.... Do take your\
things off for a second.... Cassie wont you have dinner with us?\'94\
\
\'93I felt I just had to see you.... It\'92s so wonderful about your\
wonderful success,\'94 says Cassie in a shaky voice. \'93And my dear I felt\
so terribly when I heard about Mr. Emery. I cried and cried, didnt I\
Ruth?\'94\
\
\'93Oh what a beautiful apartment you have,\'94 Ruth is exclaiming at the\
same moment. Ellen\'92s ears ring sickeningly. \'93We all have to die\
sometime,\'94 gruffly she blurts out.\
\
Ruth\'92s rubberclad foot is tapping the floor; she catches Cassie\'92s eye\
and makes her stammer into silence. \'93Hadnt we better go along? It\'92s\
getting rather late,\'94 she says.\
\
\'93Excuse me a minute Ruth.\'94 Ellen runs into the bathroom and slams the\
door. She sits on the edge of the bathtub pounding on her knees with\
her clenched fists. Those women\'92ll drive me mad. Then the tension in\
her snaps, she feels something draining out of her like water out of a\
washbasin. She quietly puts a dab of rouge on her lips.\
\
When she goes back she says in her usual voice: \'93Well let\'92s get\
along.... Got a part yet Ruth?\'94\
\
\'93I had a chance to go out to Detroit with a stock company. I turned it\
down.... I wont go out of New York whatever happens.\'94\
\
\'93What wouldnt I give for a chance to get away from New York....\
Honestly if I was offered a job singing in a movie in Medicine Hat I\
think I\'92d take it.\'94\
\
Ellen picks up her umbrella and the three women file down the stairs\
and out into the street. \'93Taxi,\'94 calls Ellen.\
\
The passing car grinds to a stop. The red hawk face of the taxidriver\
craning into the light of the street lamp. \'93Go to Eugenie\'92s on\
Fortyeighth Street,\'94 says Ellen as the others climb in. Greenish lights\
and darks flicker past the lightbeaded windows.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
She stood with her arm in the arm of Harry Goldweiser\'92s dinner jacket\
looking out over the parapet of the roofgarden. Below them the Park lay\
twinkling with occasional lights, streaked with nebular blur like a\
fallen sky. From behind them came gusts of a tango, inklings of voices,\
shuffle of feet on a dancefloor. Ellen felt a stiff castiron figure in\
her metalgreen evening dress.\
\
\'93Ah but Boirnhardt, Rachel, Duse, Mrs. Siddons.... No Elaine I\'92m tellin\
you, d\'92you understand? There\'92s no art like the stage that soars so high\
moldin the passions of men.... If I could only do what I wanted we\'92d\
be the greatest people in the world. You\'92d be the greatest actress....\
I\'92d be the great producer, the unseen builder, d\'92you understand? But\
the public dont want art, the people of this country wont let you do\
anythin for em. All they want\'92s a detective melodrama or a rotten\
French farce with the kick left out or a lot of pretty girls and\
music. Well a showman\'92s business is to give the public what they want.\'94\
\
\'93I think that this city is full of people wanting inconceivable\
things.... Look at it.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right at night when you cant see it. There\'92s no artistic\
sense, no beautiful buildins, no old-time air, that\'92s what\'92s the matter\
with it.\'94\
\
They stood a while without speaking. The orchestra began playing the\
waltz from The Lilac Domino. Suddenly Ellen turned to Goldweiser and\
said in a curt tone. \'93Can you understand a woman who wants to be a\
harlot, a common tart, sometimes?\'94\
\
\'93My dear young lady what a strange thing for a sweet lovely girl to\
suddenly come out and say.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose you\'92re shocked.\'94 She didnt hear his answer. She felt she was\
going to cry. She pressed her sharp nails into the palms of her hands,\
she held her breath until she had counted twenty. Then she said in a\
choking little girl\'92s voice, \'93Harry let\'92s go and dance a little.\'94\
\
The sky above the cardboard buildings is a vault of beaten lead. It\
would be less raw if it would snow. Ellen finds a taxi on the corner\
of Seventh Avenue and lets herself sink back in the seat rubbing the\
numb gloved fingers of one hand against the palm of the other. \'93West\
Fiftyseventh, please.\'94 Out of a sick mask of fatigue she watches\
fruitstores, signs, buildings being built, trucks, girls, messengerboys\
policemen through the jolting window. If I have my child, Stan\'92s\
child, it will grow up to jolt up Seventh Avenue under a sky of beaten\
lead that never snows watching fruitstores, signs, buildings being\
built, trucks, girls, messengerboys, policemen.... She presses her\
knees together sits up straight on the edge of the seat with her hands\
clasped over her slender belly. O God the rotten joke they\'92ve played\
on me, taking Stan away, burning him up, leaving me nothing but this\
growing in me that\'92s going to kill me. She\'92s whimpering into her numb\
hands. O God why wont it snow?\
\
As she stands on the gray pavement fumbling in her purse for a bill, a\
dusteddy swirling scraps of paper along the gutter fills her mouth with\
grit. The elevatorman\'92s face is round ebony with ivory inlay. \'93Mrs.\
Staunton Wells?\'94 \'93Yas ma\'92am eighth floor.\'94\
\
The elevator hums as it soars. She stands looking at herself in the\
narrow mirror. Suddenly something recklessly gay goes through her. She\
rubs the dust off her face with a screwedup handkerchief, smiles at the\
elevatorman\'92s smile that\'92s wide as the full keyboard of a piano, and\
briskly rustles to the door of the apartment that a frilled maid opens.\
Inside it smells of tea and furs and flowers, women\'92s voices chirp to\
the clinking of cups like birds in an aviary. Glances flicker about her\
head as she goes into the room.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
There was wine spilled on the tablecloth and bits of tomatosauce from\
the spaghetti. The restaurant was a steamy place with views of the Bay\
of Naples painted in soupy blues and greens on the walls. Ellen sat\
back in her chair from the round tableful of young men, watching the\
smoke from her cigarette crinkle spirally round the fat Chiantibottle\
in front of her. In her plate a slab of tricolor icecream melted\
forlornly. \'93But good God hasnt a man some rights? No, this industrial\
civilization forces us to seek a complete readjustment of government\
and social life ...\'94\
\
\'93Doesnt he use long words?\'94 Ellen whispered to Herf who sat beside her.\
\
\'93He\'92s right all the same,\'94 he growled back at her.... \'93The result has\
been to put more power in the hands of a few men than there has been\
in the history of the world since the horrible slave civilizations of\
Egypt and Mesopotamia....\'94\
\
\'93Hear hear.\'94\
\
\'93No but I\'92m serious.... The only way of bucking the interests is for\
working people, the proletariat, producers and consumers, anything you\
want to call them, to form unions and finally get so well organized\
that they can take over the whole government.\'94\
\
\'93I think you\'92re entirely wrong, Martin, it\'92s the interests as you call\
em, these horrible capitalists, that have built up this country as we\
have it today.\'94\
\
\'93Well look at it for God\'92s sake.... That\'92s what I\'92m saying. I wouldnt\
kennel a dog in it.\'94\
\
\'93I dont think so. I admire this country.... It\'92s the only fatherland\
I\'92ve got.... And I think that all these downtrodden masses really want\
to be downtrodden, they\'92re not fit for anything else.... If they werent\
they\'92d be flourishing businessmen ... Those that are any good are\
getting to be.\'94\
\
\'93But I don\'92t think a flourishing businessman is the highest ideal of\
human endeavor.\'94\
\
\'93A whole lot higher than a rotten fiddleheaded anarchist agitator....\
Those that arent crooks are crazy.\'94\
\
\'93Look here Mead, you\'92ve just insulted something that you dont\
understand, that you know nothing about.... I cant allow you to do\
that.... You should try to understand things before you go round\
insulting them.\'94\
\
\'93An insult to the intelligence that\'92s what it is all this socialistic\
drivel.\'94\
\
Ellen tapped Herf on the sleeve. \'93Jimmy I\'92ve got to go home. Do you\
want to walk a little way with me?\'94\
\
\'93Martin, will you settle for us? We\'92ve got to go.... Ellie you look\
terribly pale.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s just a little hot in here.... Whee, what a relief.... I hate\
arguments anyway. I never can think of anything to say.\'94\
\
\'93That bunch does nothing but chew the rag night after night.\'94\
\
Eighth Avenue was full of fog that caught at their throats. Lights\
bloomed dimly through it, faces loomed, glinted in silhouette and faded\
like a fish in a muddy aquarium.\
\
\'93Feel better Ellie?\'94\
\
\'93Lots.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m awfully glad.\'94\
\
\'93Do you know you\'92re the only person around here who calls me Ellie. I\
like it.... Everybody tries to make me seem so grown up since I\'92ve been\
on the stage.\'94\
\
\'93Stan used to.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe that\'92s why I like it,\'94 she said in a little trailing voice like\
a cry heard at night from far away along a beach.\
\
Jimmy felt something clamping his throat. \'93Oh gosh things are rotten,\'94\
he said. \'93God I wish I could blame it all on capitalism the way Martin\
does.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s pleasant walking like this ... I love a fog.\'94\
\
They walked on without speaking. Wheels rumbled through the muffling\
fog underlaid with the groping distant lowing of sirens and steamboat\
whistles on the river.\
\
\'93But at least you have a career.... You like your work, you\'92re\
enormously successful,\'94 said Herf at the corner of Fourteenth Street,\
and caught her arm as they crossed.\
\
\'93Dont say that.... You really dont believe it. I dont kid myself as\
much as you think I do.\'94\
\
\'93No but it\'92s so.\'94\
\
\'93It used to be before I met Stan, before I loved him.... You see I\
was a crazy little stagestruck kid who got launched out in a lot of\
things I didnt understand before I had time to learn anything about\
life.... Married at eighteen and divorced at twentytwo\'92s a pretty good\
record.... But Stan was so wonderful....\'94\
\
\'93I know.\'94\
\
\'93Without ever saying anything he made me feel there were other things\
... unbelievable things....\'94\
\
\'93God I resent his craziness though.... It\'92s such a waste.\'94\
\
\'93I cant talk about it.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s not.\'94\
\
\'93Jimmy you\'92re the only person left I can really talk to.\'94\
\
\'93Dont want to trust me. I might go berserk on you too some day.\'94\
\
They laughed.\
\
\'93God I\'92m glad I\'92m not dead, arent you Ellie?\'94\
\
\'93I dont know. Look here\'92s my place. I dont want you to come up.... I\'92m\
going right to bed. I feel miserably....\'94 Jimmy stood with his hat off\
looking at her. She was fumbling in her purse for her key. \'93Look Jimmy\
I might as well tell you....\'94 She went up to him and spoke fast with\
her face turned away pointing at him with the latchkey that caught the\
light of the streetlamp. The fog was like a tent round about them. \'93I\'92m\
going to have a baby.... Stan\'92s baby. I\'92m going to give up all this\
silly life and raise it. I dont care what happens.\'94\
\
\'93O God that\'92s the bravest thing I ever heard of a woman doing.... Oh\
Ellie you\'92re so wonderful. God if I could only tell you what I....\'94\
\
\'93Oh no.\'94 Her voice broke and her eyes filled with tears. \'93I\'92m a silly\
fool, that\'92s all.\'94 She screwed up her face like a little child and ran\
up the steps with the tears streaming down her face.\
\
\'93Oh Ellie I want to say something to you ...\'94\
\
The door closed behind her.\
\
Jimmy Herf stood stockstill at the foot of the brownstone steps. His\
temples throbbed. He wanted to break the door down after her. He\
dropped on his knees and kissed the step where she had stood. The fog\
swirled and flickered with colors in confetti about him. Then the\
trumpet feeling ebbed and he was falling through a black manhole. He\
stood stockstill. A policeman\'92s ballbearing eyes searched his face as\
he passed, a stout blue column waving a nightstick. Then suddenly he\
clenched his fists and walked off. \'93O God everything is hellish,\'94 he\
said aloud. He wiped the grit off his lips with his coatsleeve.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
She puts her hand in his to jump out of the roadster as the ferry\
starts, \'93Thanks Larry,\'94 and follows his tall ambling body out on the\
bow. A faint riverwind blows the dust and gasoline out of their\
nostrils. Through the pearly night the square frames of houses along\
the Drive opposite flicker like burnedout fireworks. The waves slap\
tinily against the shoving bow of the ferry. A hunchback with a violin\
is scratching Marianela.\
\
\'93Nothing succeeds like success,\'94 Larry is saying in a deep droning\
voice.\
\
\'93Oh if you knew how little I cared about anything just now you wouldnt\
go on teasing me with all these words.... You know, marriage, success,\
love, they\'92re just words.\'94\
\
\'93But they mean everything in the world to me.... I think you\'92d like it\
in Lima Elaine.... I waited until you were free, didnt I? And now here\
I am.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re none of us that ever.... But I\'92m just numb.\'94 The riverwind is\
brackish. Along the viaduct above 125th Street cars crawl like beetles.\
As the ferry enters the slip they hear the squudge and rumble of wheels\
on asphalt.\
\
\'93Well we\'92d better get back into the car, you wonderful creature Elaine.\'94\
\
\'93After all day it\'92s exciting isnt it Larry, getting back into the\
center of things.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Beside the smudged white door are two pushbuttons marked NIGHT BELL\
and DAY BELL. She rings with a shaky finger. A short broad man with a\
face like a rat and sleek black hair brushed straight back opens. Short\
dollhands the color of the flesh of a mushroom hang at his sides. He\
hunches his shoulders in a bow.\
\
\'93Are you the lady? Come in.\'94\
\
\'93Is this Dr. Abrahms?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.... You are the lady my friend phoned me about. Sit down my dear\
lady.\'94 The office smells of something like arnica. Her heart joggles\
desperately between her ribs.\
\
\'93You understand ...\'94 She hates the quaver in her voice; she\'92s going to\
faint. \'93You understand, Dr. Abrahms that it is absolutely necessary. I\
am getting a divorce from my husband and have to make my own living.\'94\
\
\'93Very young, unhappily married ... I am sorry.\'94 The doctor purrs softly\
as if to himself. He heaves a hissing sigh and suddenly looks in her\
eyes with black steel eyes like gimlets. \'93Do not be afraid, dear lady,\
it is a very simple operation.... Are you ready now?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. It wont take very long will it? If I can pull myself together I\
have an engagement for tea at five.\'94\
\
\'93You are a brave young lady. In an hour it will be forgotten.... I am\
sorry.... It is very sad such a thing is necessary.... Dear lady you\
should have a home and many children and a loving husband ... Will you\
go in the operating room and prepare yourself.... I work without an\
assistant.\'94\
\
The bright searing bud of light swells in the center of the ceiling,\
sprays razorsharp nickel, enamel, a dazzling sharp glass case of sharp\
instruments. She takes off her hat and lets herself sink shuddering\
sick on a little enamel chair. Then she gets stiffly to her feet and\
undoes the band of her skirt.\
\
The roar of the streets breaks like surf about a shell of throbbing\
agony. She watches the tilt of her leather hat, the powder, the rosed\
cheeks, the crimson lips that are a mask on her face. All the buttons\
of her gloves are buttoned. She raises her hand. \'93Taxi!\'94 A fire engine\
roars past, a hosewagon with sweatyfaced men pulling on rubber coats,\
a clanging hookandladder. All the feeling in her fades with the dizzy\
fade of the siren. A wooden Indian, painted, with a hand raised at the\
streetcorner.\
\
\'93Taxi!\'94\
\
\'93Yes ma\'92am.\'94\
\
\'93Drive to the Ritz.\'94\
\
\
\
\
_Third Section_\
\
\
\
\
I. Rejoicing City That Dwelt Carelessly\
\
          _There are flags on all the flagpoles up Fifth Avenue. In\
          the shrill wind of history the great flags flap and tug at\
          their lashings on the creaking goldknobbed poles up Fifth\
          Avenue. The stars jiggle sedately against the slate sky,\
          the red and white stripes writhe against the clouds._\
\
          _In the gale of brassbands and trampling horses and\
          rumbling clatter of cannon, shadows like the shadows of\
          claws grasp at the taut flags, the flags are hungry tongues\
          licking twisting curling._\
\
Oh it\'92s a long way to Tipperary ... Over there! Over there!\
\
          _The harbor is packed with zebrastriped skunkstriped\
          piebald steamboats, the Narrows are choked with bullion,\
          they\'92re piling gold sovereigns up to the ceilings in the\
          Subtreasury. Dollars whine on the radio, all the cables tap\
          out dollars._\
\
There\'92s a long long trail awinding ... Over there! Over there!\
\
          _In the subway their eyes pop as they spell out_\
          APOCALYPSE, _typhus, cholera, shrapnel, insurrection, death\
          in fire, death in water, death in hunger, death in mud._\
\
          _Oh it\'92s a long way to Madymosell from Armenteers, over\
          there! The Yanks are coming, the Yanks are coming. Down\
          Fifth Avenue the bands blare for the Liberty Loan drive,\
          for the Red Cross drive. Hospital ships sneak up the harbor\
          and unload furtively at night in old docks in Jersey. Up\
          Fifth Avenue the flags of the seventeen nations are flaring\
          curling in the shrill hungry wind._\
\
  O the oak and the ash and the weeping willow tree\
  And green grows the grass in God\'92s country.\
\
          _The great flags flap and tug at their lashings on the\
          creaking goldknobbed poles up Fifth Avenue._\
\
\
Captain James Merivale D.S.C. lay with his eyes closed while the\
barber\'92s padded fingers gently stroked his chin. The lather tickled\
his nostrils; he could smell bay rum, hear the drone of an electric\
vibrator, the snipping of scissors.\
\
\'93A little face massage sir, get rid of a few of those blackheads sir,\'94\
burred the barber in his ear. The barber was bald and had a round blue\
chin.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 drawled Merivale, \'93go as far as you like. This is the\
first decent shave I\'92ve had since war was declared.\'94\
\
\'93Just in from overseas, Captain?\'94\
\
\'93Yare ... been making the world safe for democracy.\'94\
\
The barber smothered his words under a hot towel. \'93A little lilac water\
Captain?\'94\
\
\'93No dont put any of your damn lotions on me, just a little witchhazel\
or something antiseptic.\'94\
\
The blond manicure girl had faintly beaded lashes; she looked up at\
him bewitchingly, her rosebud lips parted. \'93I guess you\'92ve just landed\
Captain.... My you\'92ve got a good tan.\'94 He gave up his hand to her on\
the little white table. \'93It\'92s a long time Captain since anybody took\
care of these hands.\'94\
\
\'93How can you tell?\'94\
\
\'93Look how the cuticle\'92s grown.\'94\
\
\'93We were too busy for anything like that. I\'92m a free man since eight\
o\'92clock that\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93Oh it must have been terr ... ible.\'94\
\
\'93Oh it was a great little war while it lasted.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll say it was ... And now you\'92re all through Captain?\'94\
\
\'93Of course I keep my commission in the reserve corps.\'94\
\
She gave his hand a last playful tap and he got to his feet.\
\
He put tips into the soft palm of the barber and the hard palm of\
the colored boy who handed him his hat, and walked slowly up the\
white marble steps. On the landing was a mirror. Captain James\
Merivale stopped to look at Captain James Merivale. He was a tall\
straightfeatured young man with a slight heaviness under the chin. He\
wore a neat-fitting whipcord uniform picked out by the insignia of the\
Rainbow Division, well furnished with ribbons and service-stripes.\
The light of the mirror was reflected silvery on either calf of his\
puttees. He cleared his throat as he looked himself up and down. A\
young man in civilian clothes came up behind him.\
\
\'93Hello James, all cleaned up?\'94\
\
\'93You betcher.... Say isnt it a damn fool rule not letting us wear Sam\
Browne belts? Spoils the whole uniform....\'94\
\
\'93They can take all their Sam Browne\'92s belts and hang them on the\
Commanding General\'92s fanny for all I care.... I\'92m a civilian.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re still an officer in the reserve corps, dont forget that.\'94\
\
\'93They can take their reserve corps and shove it ten thousand miles up\
the creek. Let\'92s go have a drink.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got to go up and see the folks.\'94 They had come out on Fortysecond\
Street. \'93Well so long James, I\'92m going to get so drunk ... Just imagine\
being free.\'94 \'93So long Jerry, dont do anything I wouldnt do.\'94\
\
Merivale walked west along Fortysecond. There were still flags out,\
drooping from windows, waggling lazily from poles in the September\
breeze. He looked in the shops as he walked along; flowers, women\'92s\
stockings, candy, shirts and neckties, dresses, colored draperies\
through glinting plateglass, beyond a stream of faces, men\'92s\
razorscraped faces, girls\'92 faces with rouged lips and powdered noses.\
It made him feel flushed and excited. He fidgeted when he got in the\
subway. \'93Look at the stripes that one has.... He\'92s a D.S.C.,\'94 he heard\
a girl say to another. He got out at Seventysecond and walked with his\
chest stuck out down the too familiar brownstone street towards the\
river.\
\
\'93How do you do, Captain Merivale,\'94 said the elevator man.\
\
\'93Well, are you out James?\'94 cried his mother running into his arms.\
\
He nodded and kissed her. She looked pale and wilted in her black\
dress. Maisie, also in black, came rustling tall and rosycheeked behind\
her. \'93It\'92s wonderful to find you both looking so well.\'94\
\
\'93Of course we are ... as well as could be expected. My dear we\'92ve had a\
terrible time.... You\'92re the head of the family now, James.\'94\
\
\'93Poor daddy ... to go off like that.\'94\
\
\'93That was something you missed.... Thousands of people died of it in\
New York alone.\'94\
\
He hugged Maisie with one arm and his mother with the other. Nobody\
spoke.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 said Merivale walking into the living room, \'93it was a great war\
while it lasted.\'94 His mother and sister followed on his heels. He sat\
down in the leather chair and stretched out his polished legs. \'93You\
dont know how wonderful it is to get home.\'94\
\
Mrs. Merivale drew up her chair close to his. \'93Now dear you just tell\
us all about it.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
In the dark of the stoop in front of the tenement door, he reaches for\
her and drags her to him. \'93Dont Bouy, dont; dont be rough.\'94 His arms\
tighten like knotted cords round her back; her knees are trembling.\
His mouth is groping for her mouth along one cheekbone, down the side\
of her nose. She cant breathe with his lips probing her lips. \'93Oh I\
cant stand it.\'94 He holds her away from him. She is staggering panting\
against the wall held up by his big hands.\
\
\'93Nutten to worry about,\'94 he whispers gently.\
\
\'93I\'92ve got to go, it\'92s late.... I have to get up at six.\'94\
\
\'93Well what time do you think I get up?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s mommer who might catch me....\'94\
\
\'93Tell her to go to hell.\'94\
\
\'93I will some day ... worse\'92n that ... if she dont quit pickin on me.\'94\
She takes hold of his stubbly cheeks and kisses him quickly on the\
mouth and has broken away from him and run up the four flights of grimy\
stairs.\
\
The door is still on the latch. She strips off her dancing pumps and\
walks carefully through the kitchenette on aching feet. From the next\
room comes the wheezy doublebarreled snoring of her uncle and aunt.\
_Somebody loves me, I wonder who...._ The tune is all through her body,\
in the throb of her feet, in the tingling place on her back where\
he held her tight dancing with her. Anna you\'92ve got to forget it or\
you wont sleep. Anna you got to forget. Dishes on the tables set for\
breakfast jingle tingle hideously when she bumps against it.\
\
\'93That you Anna?\'94 comes a sleepy querulous voice from her mother\'92s bed.\
\
\'93Went to get a drink o water mommer.\'94 The old woman lets the breath out\
in a groan through her teeth, the bedsprings creak as she turns over.\
Asleep all the time.\
\
_Somebody loves me, I wonder who._ She slips off her party dress and\
gets into her nightgown. Then she tiptoes to the closet to hang up\
the dress and at last slides between the covers little by little so\
the slats wont creak. _I wonder who._ Shuffle shuffle, bright lights,\
pink blobbing faces, grabbing arms, tense thighs, bouncing feet. _I\
wonder who._ Shuffle, droning saxophone tease, shuffle in time to the\
drum, trombone, clarinet. Feet, thighs, cheek to cheek, _Somebody loves\
me...._ Shuffle shuffle. _I wonder who._\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The baby with tiny shut purplishpink face and fists lay asleep on the\
berth. Ellen was leaning over a black leather suitcase. Jimmy Herf in\
his shirtsleeves was looking out the porthole.\
\
\'93Well there\'92s the statue of Liberty.... Ellie we ought to be out on\
deck.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92ll be ages before we dock.... Go ahead up. I\'92ll come up with Martin\
in a minute.\'94\
\
\'93Oh come ahead; we\'92ll put the baby\'92s stuff in the bag while we\'92re\
warping into the slip.\'94\
\
They came out on deck into a dazzling September afternoon. The water\
was greenindigo. A steady wind kept sweeping coils of brown smoke and\
blobs of whitecotton steam off the high enormous blueindigo arch of\
sky. Against a sootsmudged horizon, tangled with barges, steamers,\
chimneys of powerplants, covered wharves, bridges, lower New York was a\
pink and white tapering pyramid cut slenderly out of cardboard.\
\
\'93Ellie we ought to have Martin out so he can see.\'94\
\
\'93And start yelling like a tugboat.... He\'92s better off where he is.\'94\
\
They ducked under some ropes, slipped past the rattling steamwinch and\
out to the bow.\
\
\'93God Ellie it\'92s the greatest sight in the world.... I never thought I\'92d\
ever come back, did you?\'94\
\
\'93I had every intention of coming back.\'94\
\
\'93Not like this.\'94\
\
\'93No I dont suppose I did.\'94\
\
\'93S\'92il vous plait madame ...\'94\
\
A sailor was motioning them back. Ellen turned her face into the\
wind to get the coppery whisps of hair out of her eyes. \'93C\'92est beau,\
n\'92est-ce pas?\'94 She smiled into the wind into the sailor\'92s red face.\
\
\'93J\'92aime mieux Le Havre ... S\'92il vous plait madame.\'94\
\
\'93Well I\'92ll go down and pack Martin up.\'94\
\
The hard chug, chug of the tugboat coming alongside beat Jimmy\'92s answer\
out of her ears. She slipped away from him and went down to the cabin\
again.\
\
They were wedged in the jam of people at the end of the gangplank.\
\
\'93Look we could wait for a porter,\'94 said Ellen.\
\
\'93No dear I\'92ve got them.\'94 Jimmy was sweating and staggering with a\
suitcase in each hand and packages under his arms. In Ellen\'92s arms the\
baby was cooing stretching tiny spread hands towards the faces all\
round.\
\
\'93D\'92you know it?\'94 said Jimmy as they crossed the gangplank, \'93I kinder\
wish we were just going on board.... I hate getting home.\'94\
\
\'93I dont hate it.... There\'92s H ... I\'92ll follow right along.... I wanted\
to look for Frances and Bob. Hello....\'94 \'93Well I\'92ll be ...\'94 \'93Helena\
you\'92ve gained, you\'92re looking wonderfully. Where\'92s Jimps?\'94 Jimmy was\
rubbing his hands together, stiff and chafed from handles of the heavy\
suitcases.\
\
\'93Hello Herf. Hello Frances. Isn\'92t this swell?\'94\
\
\'93Gosh I\'92m glad to see you....\'94\
\
\'93Jimps the thing for me to do is go right on to the Brevoort with the\
baby ...\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t he sweet.\'94\
\
\'93... Have you got five dollars?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve only got a dollar in change. That hundred is in express checks.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got plenty of money. Helena and I\'92ll go to the hotel and you boys\
can come along with the baggage.\'94\
\
\'93Inspector is it all right if I go through with the baby? My husband\
will look after the trunks.\'94\
\
\'93Why surely madam, go right ahead.\'94\
\
\'93Isnt he nice? Oh Frances this is lots of fun.\'94\
\
\'93Go ahead Bob I can finish this up alone quicker.... You convoy the\
ladies to the Brevoort.\'94\
\
\'93Well we hate to leave you.\'94\
\
\'93Oh go ahead.... I\'92ll be right along.\'94\
\
\'93Mr. James Herf and wife and infant ... is that it?\'94\
\
\'93Yes that\'92s right.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be right with you, Mr. Herf.... Is all the baggage there?\'94\
\
\'93Yes everything\'92s there.\'94\
\
\'93Isnt he good?\'94 clucked Frances as she and Hildebrand followed Ellen\
into the cab.\
\
\'93Who?\'94\
\
\'93The baby of course....\'94\
\
\'93Oh you ought to see him sometimes.... He seems to like traveling.\'94\
\
A plainclothesman opened the door of the cab and looked in as they\
went out the gate. \'93Want to smell our breaths?\'94 asked Hildebrand.\
The man had a face like a block of wood. He closed the door. \'93Helena\
doesn\'92t know prohibition yet, does she?\'94\
\
\'93He gave me a scare ... Look.\'94\
\
\'93Good gracious!\'94 From under the blanket that was wrapped round the\
baby she produced a brownpaper package.... \'93Two quarts of our special\
cognac ... gout famille \'92Erf ... and I\'92ve got another quart in a\
hotwaterbottle under my waistband.... That\'92s why I look as if I was\
going to have another baby.\'94\
\
The Hildebrands began hooting with laughter.\
\
\'93Jimp\'92s got a hotwaterbottle round his middle too and chartreuse in\
a flask on his hip.... We\'92ll probably have to go and bail him out of\
jail.\'94\
\
They were still laughing so that tears were streaming down their faces\
when they drew up at the hotel. In the elevator the baby began to wail.\
\
As soon as she had closed the door of the big sunny room she fished\
the hotwaterbottle from under her dress. \'93Look Bob phone down for some\
cracked ice and seltzer.... We\'92ll all have a cognac a l\'92eau de selz....\'94\
\
\'93Hadn\'92t we better wait for Jimps?\'94\
\
\'93Oh he\'92ll be right here.... We haven\'92t anything dutiable.... Much too\
broke to have anything.... Frances what do you do about milk in New\
York?\'94\
\
\'93How should I know, Helena?\'94 Frances Hildebrand flushed and walked to\
the window.\
\
\'93Oh well we\'92ll give him his food again.... He\'92s done fairly well on\
it on the trip.\'94 Ellen had laid the baby on the bed. He lay kicking,\
looking about with dark round goldstone eyes.\
\
\'93Isnt he fat?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s so healthy I\'92m sure he must be halfwitted.... Oh Heavens and I\'92ve\
got to call up my father.... Isnt family life just too desperately\
complicated?\'94\
\
Ellen was setting up her little alcohol stove on the washstand. The\
bellboy came with glasses and a bowl of clinking ice and White Rock on\
a tray.\
\
\'93You fix us a drink out of the hotwaterbottle. We\'92ve got to use that up\
or it\'92ll eat the rubber.... And we\'92ll drink to the Caf\'e9 d\'92Harcourt.\'94\
\
\'93Of course what you kids dont realize,\'94 said Hildebrand, \'93is that the\
difficulty under prohibition is keeping sober.\'94\
\
Ellen laughed; she stood over the little lamp that gave out a quiet\
domestic smell of hot nickel and burned alcohol.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
George Baldwin was walking up Madison Avenue with his light overcoat\
on his arm. His fagged spirits were reviving in the sparkling autumn\
twilight of the streets. From block to block through the taxiwhirring\
gasoline gloaming two lawyers in black frock coats and stiff wing\
collars argued in his head. If you go home it will be cozy in the\
library. The apartment will be gloomy and quiet and you can sit in\
your slippers under the bust of Scipio Africanus in the leather chair\
and read and have dinner sent in to you.... Nevada would be jolly and\
coarse and tell you funny stories.... She would have all the City Hall\
gossip ... good to know.... But you\'92re not going to see Nevada any more\
... too dangerous; she gets you all wrought up.... And Cecily sitting\
faded and elegant and slender biting her lips and hating me, hating\
life.... Good God how am I going to get my existence straightened out?\
He stopped in front of a flowerstore. A moist warm honied expensive\
smell came from the door, densely out into the keen steelblue street.\
If I could at least make my financial position impregnable.... In the\
window was a minature Japanese garden with brokenback bridges and ponds\
where the goldfish looked big as whales. Proportion, that\'92s it. To lay\
out your life like a prudent gardener, plowing and sowing. No I wont\
go to see Nevada tonight. I might send her some flowers though. Yellow\
roses, those coppery roses ... it\'92s Elaine who ought to wear those.\
Imagine her married again and with a baby. He went into the store.\
\'93What\'92s that rose?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s Gold of Ophir sir.\'94\
\
\'93All right I want two dozen sent down to the Brevoort immediately....\
Miss Elaine ... No Mr. and Mrs. James Herf.... I\'92ll write a card.\'94\
\
He sat down at the desk with a pen in his hand. Incense of roses,\
incense out of the dark fire of her hair.... No nonsense for Heaven\'92s\
sake ...\
\
     DEAR ELAINE,\
\
     I hope you will allow an old friend to call on you and your\
     husband one of these days. And please remember that I am\
     always sincerely anxious--you know me too well to take this\
     for an empty offer of politeness--to serve you and him in any\
     way that could possibly contribute to your happiness. Forgive\
     me if I subscribe myself your lifelong slave and admirer\
\
                                                 GEORGE BALDWIN\
\
The letter covered three of the florists\'92 white cards. He read it over\
with pursed lips, carefully crossing the t\'92s and dotting the i\'92s. Then\
he paid the florist from the roll of bills he took from his back pocket\
and went out into the street again. It was already night, going on to\
seven o\'92clock. Still hesitating he stood at the corner watching the\
taxis pass, yellow, red, green, tangerinecolored.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The snubnosed transport sludges slowly through the Narrows in the rain.\
Sergeant-Major O\'92Keefe and Private 1st Class Dutch Robertson stand in\
the lee of the deckhouse looking at the liners at anchor in quarantine\
and the low wharfcluttered shores.\
\
\'93Look some of em still got their warpaint--Shippin Board boats.... Not\
worth the powder to blow em up.\'94\
\
\'93The hell they aint,\'94 said Joey O\'92Keefe vaguely.\
\
\'93Gosh little old New York\'92s goin to look good to me....\'94\
\
\'93Me too Sarge, rain or shine I dont care.\'94\
\
They are passing close to a mass of steamers anchored in a block,\
some of them listing to one side or the other, lanky ships with short\
funnels, stumpy ships with tall funnels red with rust, some of them\
striped and splashed and dotted with puttycolor and blue and green of\
camouflage paint. A man in a motorboat waved his arms. The men in khaki\
slickers huddled on the gray dripping deck of the transport begin to\
sing\
\
    Oh the infantry, the infantry,\
    With the dirt behind their ears ...\
\
Through the brightbeaded mist behind the low buildings of Governors\
Island they can make out the tall pylons, the curving cables, the airy\
lace of Brooklyn Bridge. Robertson pulls a package out of his pocket\
and pitches it overboard.\
\
\'93What was that?\'94\
\
\'93Just my propho kit.... Wont need it no more.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Oh I\'92m goin to live clean an get a good job and maybe get married.\'94\
\
\'93I guess that\'92s not such a bad idear. I\'92m tired o playin round myself.\
Jez somebody must a cleaned up good on them Shippin Board boats.\'94\
\'93That\'92s where the dollar a year men get theirs I guess.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell the world they do.\'94\
\
Up forward they are singing\
\
    Oh she works in a jam factoree\
    And that may be all right ...\
\
\'93Jez we\'92re goin up the East River Sarge. Where the devil do they think\
they\'92re goin to land us?\'94\
\
\'93God, I\'92d be willin to swim ashore myself. An just think of all the\
guys been here all this time cleanin up on us.... Ten dollars a day\
workin in a shipyard mind you ...\'94\
\
\'93Hell Sarge we got the experience.\'94\
\
\'93Experience ...\'94\
\
    Apres la guerre finee\
    Back to the States for me....\
\
\'93I bet the skipper\'92s been drinkin beaucoup highballs an thinks\
Brooklyn\'92s Hoboken.\'94\
\
\'93Well there\'92s Wall Street, bo.\'94\
\
They are passing under Brooklyn Bridge. There is a humming whine of\
electric trains over their heads, an occasional violet flash from the\
wet rails. Behind them beyond barges tugboats carferries the tall\
buildings, streaked white with whisps of steam and mist, tower gray\
into sagged clouds.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Nobody said anything while they ate the soup. Mrs. Merivale sat in\
black at the head of the oval table looking out through the half drawn\
porti\'e8res and the drawingroom window beyond at a column of white smoke\
that uncoiled in the sunlight above the trainyards, remembering her\
husband and how they had come years ago to look at the apartment in the\
unfinished house that smelled of plaster and paint. At last when she\
had finished her soup she roused herself and said: \'93Well Jimmy, are you\
going back to newspaper work?\'94\
\
\'93I guess so.\'94\
\
\'93James has had three jobs offered him already. I think it\'92s remarkable.\'94\
\
\'93I guess I\'92ll go in with the Major though,\'94 said James Merivale to\
Ellen who sat next to him. \'93Major Goodyear you know, Cousin Helena....\
One of the Buffalo Goodyears. He\'92s head of the foreign exchange\
department of the Banker\'92s Trust.... He says he can work me up quickly.\
We were friends overseas.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92ll be wonderful,\'94 said Maisie in a cooing voice, \'93wont it Jimmy?\'94\
She sat opposite slender and rosy in her black dress.\
\
\'93He\'92s putting me up for Piping Rock,\'94 went on Merivale.\
\
\'93What\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Why Jimmy you must know.... I\'92m sure Cousin Helena has been out there\
to tea many a time.\'94\
\
\'93You know Jimps,\'94 said Ellen with her eyes in her plate. \'93That\'92s where\
Stan Emery\'92s father used to go every Sunday.\'94\
\
\'93Oh did you know that unfortunate young man? That was a horrible\
thing,\'94 said Mrs. Merivale. \'93So many horrible things have been\
happening these years.... I\'92d almost forgotten about it.\'94\
\
\'93Yes I knew him,\'94 said Ellen.\
\
The leg of lamb came in accompanied by fried eggplant, late corn, and\
sweet potatoes. \'93Do you know I think it is just terrible,\'94 said Mrs.\
Merivale when she had done carving, \'93the way you fellows wont tell us\
any of your experiences over there.... Lots of them must have been\
remarkably interesting. Jimmy I should think you\'92d write a book about\
your experiences.\'94\
\
\'93I have tried a few articles.\'94\
\
\'93When are they coming out?\'94\
\
\'93Nobody seems to want to print them.... You see I differ radically in\
certain matters of opinion ...\'94\
\
\'93Mrs. Merivale it\'92s years since I\'92ve eaten such delicious sweet\
potatoes.... These taste like yams.\'94\
\
\'93They are good.... It\'92s just the way I have them cooked.\'94\
\
\'93Well it was a great war while it lasted,\'94 said Merivale.\
\
\'93Where were you Armistice night, Jimmy?\'94\
\
\'93I was in Jerusalem with the Red Cross. Isn\'92t that absurd?\'94\
\
\'93I was in Paris.\'94\
\
\'93So was I,\'94 said Ellen.\
\
\'93And so you were over there too Helena? I\'92m going to call you Helena\
eventually, so I might as well begin now.... Isn\'92t that interesting?\
Did you and Jimmy meet over there?\'94\
\
\'93Oh no we were old friends.... But we were thrown together a lot.... We\
were in the same department of the Red Cross--the Publicity Department.\'94\
\
\'93A real war romance,\'94 chanted Mrs. Merivale. \'93Isn\'92t that interesting?\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Now fellers it\'92s this way,\'94 shouted Joe O\'92Keefe, the sweat\
breaking out on his red face. \'93Are we going to put over this bonus\
proposition or aint we?... We fought for em didnt we, we cleaned up\
the squareheads, didnt we? And now when we come home we get the dirty\
end of the stick. No jobs.... Our girls have gone and married other\
fellers.... Treat us like a bunch o dirty bums and loafers when we\
ask for our just and legal and lawful compensation ... the bonus. Are\
we goin to stand for it?... No. Are we goin to stand for a bunch of\
politicians treatin us like we was goin round to the back door to ask\
for a handout?... I ask you fellers....\'94\
\
Feet stamped on the floor. \'93No.\'94 \'93To hell wid em,\'94 shouted voices....\
\'93Now I say to hell wid de politicians.... We\'92ll carry our campaign to\
the country ... to the great big generous bighearted American people we\
fought and bled and laid down our lives for.\'94\
\
The long armory room roared with applause. The wounded men in the front\
row banged the floor with their crutches. \'93Joey\'92s a good guy,\'94 said a\
man without arms to a man with one eye and an artificial leg who sat\
beside him. \'93He is that Buddy.\'94 While they were filing out offering\
each other cigarettes, a man stood in the door calling out, \'93Committee\
meeting, Committee on Bonus.\'94\
\
The four of them sat round a table in the room the Colonel had lent\
them. \'93Well fellers let\'92s have a cigar.\'94 Joe hopped over to the\
Colonel\'92s desk and brought out four Romeo and Juliets. \'93He\'92ll never\
miss em.\'94\
\
\'93Some little grafter I\'92ll say,\'94 said Sid Garnett stretching out his\
long legs.\
\
\'93Havent got a case of Scotch in there, have you Joey?\'94 said Bill Dougan.\
\
\'93Naw I\'92m not drinkin myself jus for the moment.\'94\
\
\'93I know where you kin get guaranteed Haig and Haig,\'94 put in Segal\
cockily--\'93before the war stuff for six dollars a quart.\'94\
\
\'93An where are we goin to get the six dollars for crissake?\'94\
\
\'93Now look here fellers,\'94 said Joe, sitting on the edge of the table,\
\'93let\'92s get down to brass tacks.... What we\'92ve got to do is raise a fund\
from the gang and anywhere else we can.... Are we agreed about that?\'94\
\
\'93Sure we are, you tell em,\'94 said Dougan.\
\
\'93I know lot of old fellers even, thinks the boys are gettin a raw\
deal.... We\'92ll call it the Brooklyn Bonus Agitation Committee\
associated with the Sheamus O\'92Rielly Post of the A. L.... No use doin\
anythin unless you do it up right.... Now are yous guys wid me or aint\
yer?\'94\
\
\'93Sure we are Joey.... You tell em an we\'92ll mark time.\'94\
\
\'93Well Dougan\'92s got to be president cause he\'92s the best lookin.\'94\
\
Dougan went crimson and began to stammer.\
\
\'93Oh you seabeach Apollo,\'94 jeered Garnett.\
\
\'93And I think I can do best as treasurer because I\'92ve had more\
experience.\'94\
\
\'93Cause you\'92re the crookedest you mean,\'94 said Segal under his breath.\
\
Joe stuck out his jaw. \'93Look here Segal are you wid us or aint yer?\
You\'92d better come right out wid it now if you\'92re not.\'94\
\
\'93Sure, cut de comedy,\'94 said Dougan. \'93Joey\'92s de guy to put dis ting\
trough an you know it.... Cut de comedy.... If you dont like it you kin\
git out.\'94\
\
Segal rubbed his thin hooked nose. \'93I was juss jokin gents, I didn\'92t\
mean no harm.\'94\
\
\'93Look here,\'94 went on Joe angrily, \'93what do you think I\'92m givin up my\
time for?... Why I turned down fifty dollars a week only yesterday,\
aint that so, Sid? You seen me talkin to de guy.\'94\
\
\'93Sure I did Joey.\'94\
\
\'93Oh pipe down fellers,\'94 said Segal. \'93I was just stringin Joey along.\'94\
\
\'93Well I think Segal you ought to be secretary, cause you know about\
office work....\'94\
\
\'93Office work?\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Joe puffing his chest out. \'93We\'92re goin to have desk space\
in the office of a guy I know.... It\'92s all fixed. He\'92s goin to let\
us have it free till we get a start. An we\'92re goin to have office\
stationery. Cant get nowhere in this world without presentin things\
right.\'94\
\
\'93An where do I come in?\'94 asked Sid Garnett.\
\
\'93You\'92re the committee, you big stiff.\'94\
\
After the meeting Joe O\'92Keefe walked whistling down Atlantic Avenue. It\
was a crisp night; he was walking on springs. There was a light in Dr.\
Gordon\'92s office. He rang. A whitefaced man in a white jacket opened the\
door.\
\
\'93Hello Doc.\'94\
\
\'93Is that you O\'92Keefe? Come on in my boy.\'94 Something in the doctor\'92s\
voice clutched like a cold hand at his spine.\
\
\'93Well did your test come out all right doc?\'94\
\
\'93All right ... positive all right.\'94\
\
\'93Christ.\'94\
\
\'93Dont worry too much about it, my boy, we\'92ll fix you up in a few\
months.\'94\
\
\'93Months.\'94\
\
\'93Why at a conservative estimate fiftyfive percent of the people you\
meet on the street have a syphilitic taint.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not as if I\'92d been a damn fool. I was careful over there.\'94\
\
\'93Inevitable in wartime....\'94\
\
\'93Now I wish I\'92d let loose.... Oh the chances I passed up.\'94\
\
The doctor laughed. \'93You probably wont even have any symptoms.... It\'92s\
just a question of injections. I\'92ll have you sound as a dollar in no\
time.... Do you want to take a shot now? I\'92ve got it all ready.\'94\
\
O\'92Keefe\'92s hands went cold. \'93Well I guess so,\'94 he forced a laugh. \'93I\
guess I\'92ll be a goddam thermometer by the time you\'92re through with me.\'94\
The doctor laughed creakily. \'93Full up of arsenic and mercury eh....\
That\'92s it.\'94\
\
The wind was blowing up colder. His teeth were chattering. Through the\
rasping castiron night he walked home. Fool to pass out that way when\
he stuck me. He could still feel the sickening lunge of the needle. He\
gritted his teeth. After this I got to have some luck.... I got to have\
some luck.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Two stout men and a lean man sit at a table by a window. The light\
of a zinc sky catches brightedged glints off glasses, silverware,\
oystershells, eyes. George Baldwin has his back to the window. Gus\
McNiel sits on his right, and Densch on his left. When the waiter leans\
over to take away the empty oystershells he can see through the window,\
beyond the graystone parapet, the tops of a few buildings jutting like\
the last trees at the edge of a cliff and the tinfoil reaches of the\
harbor littered with ships. \'93I\'92m lecturin you this time, George....\
Lord knows you used to lecture me enough in the old days. Honest it\'92s\
rank foolishness,\'94 Gus McNiel is saying. \'93... It\'92s rank foolishness\
to pass up the chance of a political career at your time of life....\
There\'92s no man in New York better fitted to hold office ...\'94\
\
\'93Looks to me as if it were your duty, Baldwin,\'94 says Densch in a deep\
voice, taking his tortoiseshell glasses out of a case and applying them\
hurriedly to his nose.\
\
The waiter has brought a large planked steak surrounded by bulwarks\
of mushrooms and chopped carrots and peas and frilled browned mashed\
potatoes. Densch straightens his glasses and stares attentively at the\
planked steak.\
\
\'93A very handsome dish Ben, a very handsome dish I must say.... It\'92s\
just this Baldwin ... as I look at it ... the country is going through\
a dangerous period of reconstruction ... the confusion attendant on\
the winding up of a great conflict ... the bankruptcy of a continent\
... bolshevism and subversive doctrines rife ... America ...\'94 he says,\
cutting with the sharp polished steel knife into the thick steak,\
rare and well peppered. He chews a mouthful slowly. \'93America,\'94 he\
begins again, \'93is in the position of taking over the receivership\
of the world. The great principles of democracy, of that commercial\
freedom upon which our whole civilization depends are more than ever\
at stake. Now as at no other time we need men of established ability\
and unblemished integrity in public office, particularly in the offices\
requiring expert judicial and legal knowledge.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s what I was tryin to tell ye the other day George.\'94\
\
\'93But that\'92s all very well Gus, but how do you know I\'92d be elected....\
After all it would mean giving up my law practice for a number of\
years, it would mean ...\'94\
\
\'93You just leave that to me.... George you\'92re elected already.\'94\
\
\'93An extraordinarily good steak,\'94 says Densch, \'93I must say.... No but\
newspaper talk aside ... I happen to know from a secret and reliable\
source that there is a subversive plot among undesirable elements in\
this country.... Good God think of the Wall Street bomb outrage....\
I must say that the attitude of the press has been gratifying in one\
respect ... in fact we\'92re approaching a national unity undreamed of\
before the war.\'94\
\
\'93No but George,\'94 breaks in Gus, \'93put it this way.... The publicity\
value of a political career\'92d kinder bolster up your law practice.\'94\
\
\'93It would and it wouldn\'92t Gus.\'94\
\
Densch is unrolling the tinfoil off a cigar. \'93At any rate it\'92s a grand\
sight.\'94 He takes off his glasses and cranes his thick neck to look out\
into the bright expanse of harbor that stretches full of masts, smoke,\
blobs of steam, dark oblongs of barges, to the hazeblurred hills of\
Staten Island.\
\
Bright flakes of cloud were scaling off a sky of crushing indigo over\
the Battery where groups of dingy darkdressed people stood round the\
Ellis Island landing station and the small boat dock waiting silently\
for something. Frayed smoke of tugs and steamers hung low and trailed\
along the opaque glassgreen water. A threemasted schooner was being\
towed down the North River. A newhoisted jib flopped awkwardly in\
the wind. Down the harbor loomed taller, taller a steamer head on,\
four red stacks packed into one, creamy superstructure gleaming.\
\'93_Mauretania_ just acomin in twentyfour hours lyte,\'94 yelled the\
man with the telescope and fieldglasses.... \'93Tyke a look at the\
_Mauretania_, farstest ocean greyhound, twentyfour hours lyte.\'94 The\
_Mauretania_ stalked like a skyscraper through the harbor shipping. A\
rift of sunlight sharpened the shadow under the broad bridge, along the\
white stripes of upper decks, glinted in the rows of portholes. The\
smokestacks stood apart, the hull lengthened. The black relentless hull\
of the _Mauretania_ pushing puffing tugs ahead of it cut like a long\
knife into the North River.\
\
A ferry was leaving the immigrant station, a murmur rustled through\
the crowd that packed the edges of the wharf. \'93Deportees.... It\'92s the\
communists the Department of Justice is having deported ... deportees\
... Reds.... It\'92s the Reds they are deporting.\'94 The ferry was out\
of the slip. In the stern a group of men stood still tiny like tin\
soldiers. \'93They are sending the Reds back to Russia.\'94 A handkerchief\
waved on the ferry, a red handkerchief. People tiptoed gently to the\
edge of the walk, tiptoeing, quiet like in a sickroom.\
\
Behind the backs of the men and women crowding to the edge of the\
water, gorillafaced chipontheshoulder policemen walked back and forth\
nervously swinging their billies.\
\
\'93They are sending the Reds back to Russia.... Deportees....\
Agitators.... Undesirables.\'94 ... Gulls wheeled crying. A catsupbottle\
bobbed gravely in the little ground-glass waves. A sound of singing\
came from the ferryboat getting small, slipping away across the water.\
\
    C\'92est la lutte finale, groupons-nous et demain\
    L\'92Internationale sera le genre humain.\
\
\'93Take a look at the deportees.... Take a look at the undesirable\
aliens,\'94 shouted the man with the telescopes and fieldglasses. A girl\'92s\
voice burst out suddenly, \'93_Arise prisoners of starvation_,\'94 \'93Sh....\
They could pull you for that.\'94\
\
The singing trailed away across the water. At the end of a marbled wake\
the ferryboat was shrinking into haze. _International ... shall be the\
human race._ The singing died. From up the river came the longdrawn\
rattling throb of a steamer leaving dock. Gulls wheeled above the dark\
dingydressed crowd that stood silently looking down the bay.\
\
\
\
\
II. Nickelodeon\
\
          _A nickel before midnight buys tomorrow ... holdup\
          headlines, a cup of coffee in the automat, a ride to\
          Woodlawn, Fort Lee, Flatbush.... A nickel in the slot\
          buys chewing gum. Somebody Loves Me, Baby Divine, You\'92re\
          in Kentucky Juss Shu\'92 As You\'92re Born ... bruised notes of\
          foxtrots go limping out of doors, blues, waltzes (We\'92d\
          Danced the Whole Night Through) trail gyrating tinsel\
          memories.... On Sixth Avenue on Fourteenth there are still\
          flyspecked stereopticons where for a nickel you can peep at\
          yellowed yesterdays. Beside the peppering shooting gallery\
          you stoop into the flicker_ A HOT TIME, THE BACHELOR\'92S\
          SURPRISE, THE STOLEN GARTER ... _wastebasket of tornup\
          daydreams.... A nickel before midnight buys our yesterdays._\
\
\
Ruth Prynne came out of the doctor\'92s office pulled the fur tight round\
her throat. She felt faint. Taxi. As she stepped in she remembered\
the smell of cosmetics and toast and the littered hallway at Mrs.\
Sunderlands. Oh I cant go home just yet. \'93Driver go to the Old English\
Tea Room on Fortieth Street please.\'94 She opened her long green leather\
purse and looked in. My God, only a dollar a quarter a nickel and two\
pennies. She kept her eyes on the figures flickering on the taximeter.\
She wanted to break down and cry.... The way money goes. The gritty\
cold wind rasped at her throat when she got out. \'93Eighty cents miss....\
I haven\'92t any change miss.\'94 \'93All right keep the change.\'94 Heavens only\
thirtytwo cents.... Inside it was warm and smelled cozily of tea and\
cookies.\
\
\'93Why Ruth, if it isn\'92t Ruth.... Dearest come to my arms after all these\
years.\'94 It was Billy Waldron. He was fatter and whiter than he used to\
be. He gave her a stagy hug and kissed her on the forehead. \'93How are\
you? Do tell me.... How distingu\'e9e you look in that hat.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve just been having my throat X-rayed,\'94 she said with a giggle. \'93I\
feel like the wrath of God.\'94\
\
\'93What are you doing Ruth? I havent heard of you for ages.\'94\
\
\'93Put me down as a back number, hadn\'92t you?\'94 She caught his words up\
fiercely.\
\
\'93After that beautiful performance you gave in The Orchard Queen....\'94\
\
\'93To tell the truth Billy I\'92ve had a terrible run of bad luck.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I know everything is dead.\'94\
\
\'93I have an appointment to see Belasco next week.... Something may come\
of that.\'94\
\
\'93Why I should say it might Ruth.... Are you expecting someone?\'94\
\
\'93No.... Oh Billy you\'92re still the same old tease.... Dont tease me this\
afternoon. I dont feel up to it.\'94\
\
\'93You poor dear sit down and have a cup of tea with me.\
\
\'93I tell you Ruth it\'92s a terrible year. Many a good trouper will pawn\
the last link of his watch chain this year.... I suppose you\'92re going\
the rounds.\'94\
\
\'93Dont talk about it.... If I could only get my throat all right.... A\
thing like that wears you down.\'94\
\
\'93Remember the old days at the Somerville Stock?\'94\
\
\'93Billy could I ever forget them?... Wasnt it a scream?\'94\
\
\'93The last time I saw you Ruth was in The Butterfly on the Wheel in\
Seattle. I was out front....\'94\
\
\'93Why didn\'92t you come back and see me?\'94\
\
\'93I was still angry at you I suppose.... It was my lowest moment. In\
the valley of shadow ... melancholia ... neurasthenia. I was stranded\
penniless.... That night I was a little under the influence, you\
understand. I didn\'92t want you to see the beast in me.\'94\
\
Ruth poured herself a fresh cup of tea. She suddenly felt feverishly\
gay. \'93Oh but Billy havent you forgotten all that?... I was a foolish\
little girl then.... I was afraid that love or marriage or anything\
like that would interfere with my art, you understand.... I was so\
crazy to succeed.\'94\
\
\'93Would you do the same thing again?\'94\
\
\'93I wonder....\'94\
\
\'93How does it go?... _The moving finger writes and having writ moves\
on ..._\'94\
\
\'93Something about _Nor all your tears wash out a word of it_ ... But\
Billy,\'94 she threw back her head and laughed, \'93I thought you were\
getting ready to propose to me all over again.... Ou my throat.\'94\
\
\'93Ruth I wish you werent taking that X-ray treatment.... I\'92ve heard it\'92s\
very dangerous. Dont let me alarm you about it my dear ... but I have\
heard of cases of cancer contracted that way.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s nonsense Billy.... That\'92s only when X-rays are improperly used,\
and it takes years of exposure.... No I think this Dr. Warner\'92s a\
remarkable man.\'94\
\
Later, sitting in the uptown express in the subway, she still could\
feel his soft hand patting her gloved hand. \'93Goodby little girl, God\
bless you,\'94 he\'92d said huskily. He\'92s gotten to be a ham actor if there\
ever was one, something was jeering inside her all the while. \'93Thank\
heavens you will never know.\'94 ... Then with a sweep of his broadbrimmed\
hat and a toss of his silky white hair, as if he were playing in\
Monsieur Beaucaire, he had turned and walked off among the crowd up\
Broadway. I may be down on my luck, but I\'92m not all ham inside the\
way he is.... Cancer he said. She looked up and down the car at the\
joggling faces opposite her. Of all those people one of them must have\
it. FOUR OUT OF EVERY FIVE GET ... Silly, that\'92s not cancer. EX-LAX,\
NUJOL, O\'92SULLIVAN\'92S.... She put her hand to her throat. Her throat was\
terribly swollen, her throat throbbed feverishly. Maybe it was worse.\
It is something alive that grows in flesh, eats all your life, leaves\
you horrible, rotten.... The people opposite stared straight ahead of\
them, young men and young women, middleaged people, green faces in the\
dingy light, under the sourcolored advertisements. FOUR OUT OF EVERY\
FIVE ... A trainload of jiggling corpses, nodding and swaying as the\
express roared shrilly towards Ninetysixth Street. At Ninetysixth she\
had to change for the local.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Dutch Robertson sat on a bench on Brooklyn Bridge with the\
collar of his army overcoat turned up, running his eye down\
Business Opportunities. It was a muggy fog-choked afternoon; the\
bridge was dripping and aloof like an arbor in a dense garden of\
steamboatwhistles. Two sailors passed. \'93Ze best joint I\'92ve been in\
since B. A.\'94\
\
Partner movie theater, busy neighborhood ... stand investigation ...\
$3,000.... Jez I haven\'92t got three thousand mills.... Cigar stand, busy\
building, compelled sacrifice.... Attractive and completely outfitted\
radio and music shop ... busy.... Modern mediumsized printingplant\
consisting of cylinders, Kelleys, Miller feeders, job presses,\
linotype machines and a complete bindery.... Kosher restaurant and\
delicatessen.... Bowling alley ... busy.... Live spot large dancehall\
and other concessions. WE BUY FALSE TEETH, old gold, platinum, old\
jewelry. The hell they do. HELP WANTED MALE. That\'92s more your speed\
you rummy. Addressers, first class penmen.... Lets me out.... Artist,\
Attendant, Auto, Bicycle and Motorcycle repair shop.... He took out the\
back of an envelope and marked down the address. Bootblacks.... Not\
yet. Boy; no I guess I aint a boy any more, Candystore, Canvassers,\
Carwashers, Dishwasher. EARN WHILE YOU LEARN. Mechanical dentistry is\
your shortest way to success.... No dull seasons....\
\
\'93Hello Dutch.... I thought I\'92d never get here.\'94 A grayfaced girl in a\
red hat and gray rabbit coat sat down beside him.\
\
\'93Jez I\'92m sick o readin want ads.\'94 He stretched out his arms and yawned\
letting the paper slip down his legs.\
\
\'93Aint you chilly, sittin out here on the bridge?\'94\
\
\'93Maybe I am.... Let\'92s go and eat.\'94 He jumped to his feet and put his\
red face with its thin broken nose close to hers and looked in her\
black eyes with his pale gray eyes. He tapped her arm sharply. \'93Hello\
Francie.... How\'92s my lil girl?\'94\
\
They walked back towards Manhattan, the way she had come. Under them\
the river glinted through the mist. A big steamer drifted by slowly,\
lights already lit; over the edge of the walk they looked down the\
black smokestacks.\
\
\'93Was it a boat as big as that you went overseas on Dutch?\'94\
\
\'93Bigger \'92n that.\'94\
\
\'93Gee I\'92d like to go.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll take you over some time and show you all them places over\
there ... I went to a lot of places that time I went A.W.O.L.\'94\
\
In the L station they hesitated. \'93Francie got any jack on you?\'94\
\
\'93Sure I got a dollar.... I ought to keep that for tomorrer though.\'94\
\
\'93All I got\'92s my last quarter. Let\'92s go eat two fiftyfive cent dinners\
at that chink place ... That\'92ll be a dollar ten.\'94\
\
\'93I got to have a nickel to get down to the office in the mornin.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Hell! Goddam it I wish we could have some money.\'94\
\
\'93Got anything lined up yet?\'94\
\
\'93Wouldn\'92t I have told ye if I had?\'94\
\
\'93Come ahead I\'92ve got a half a dollar saved up in my room. I can take\
carfare outa that.\'94 She changed the dollar and put two nickels into the\
turnstile. They sat down in a Third Avenue train.\
\
\'93Say Francie will they let us dance in a khaki shirt?\'94\
\
\'93Why not Dutch it looks all right.\'94\
\
\'93I feel kinder fussed about it.\'94\
\
The jazzband in the restaurant was playing Hindustan. It smelled of\
chop suey and Chinese sauce. They slipped into a booth. Slickhaired\
young men and little bobhaired girls were dancing hugged close. As\
they sat down they smiled into each other\'92s eyes.\
\
\'93Jez I\'92m hungry.\'94\
\
\'93Are you Dutch?\'94\
\
He pushed forward his knees until they locked with hers. \'93Gee you\'92re\
a good kid,\'94 he said when he had finished his soup. \'93Honest I\'92ll get\
a job this week. And then we\'92ll get a nice room an get married an\
everything.\'94\
\
When they got up to dance they were trembling so they could barely keep\
time to the music.\
\
\'93Mister ... no dance without ploper dless ...\'94 said a dapper Chinaman\
putting his hand on Dutch\'92s arm.\
\
\'93Waz he want?\'94 he growled dancing on.\
\
\'93I guess it\'92s the shirt, Dutch.\'94\
\
\'93The hell it is.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m tired. I\'92d rather talk than dance anyway ...\'94 They went back to\
their booth and their sliced pineapple for dessert.\
\
Afterwards they walked east along Fourteenth. \'93Dutch cant we go to your\
room?\'94\
\
\'93I ain\'92t got no room. The old stiff wont let me stay and she\'92s got all\
my stuff. Honest if I dont get a job this week I\'92m goin to a recruiting\
sergeant an re-enlist.\'94\
\
\'93Oh dont do that; we wouldn\'92t ever get married then Dutch.... Gee\
though why didn\'92t you tell me?\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t want to worry you Francie.... Six months out of work ... Jez\
it\'92s enough to drive a guy cookoo.\'94\
\
\'93But Dutch where can we go?\'94\
\
\'93We might go out that wharf.... I know a wharf.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s so cold.\'94\
\
\'93I couldn\'92t get cold when you were with me kid.\'94\
\
\'93Dont talk like that.... I dont like it.\'94\
\
They walked leaning together in the darkness up the muddy rutted\
riverside streets, between huge swelling gastanks, brokendown fences,\
long manywindowed warehouses. At a corner under a streetlamp a boy\
catcalled as they passed.\
\
\'93I\'92ll poke your face in you little bastard,\'94 Dutch let fly out of the\
corner of his mouth.\
\
\'93Dont answer him,\'94 Francie whispered, \'93or we\'92ll have the whole gang\
down on us.\'94\
\
They slipped through a little door in a tall fence above which crazy\
lumberpiles towered. They could smell the river and cedarwood and\
sawdust. They could hear the river lapping at the piles under their\
feet. Dutch drew her to him and pressed his mouth down on hers.\
\
\'93Hay dere dont you know you cant come out here at night disaway?\'94 a\
voice yapped at them. The watchman flashed a lantern in their eyes.\
\
\'93All right keep your shirt on, we were just taking a little walk.\'94\
\
\'93Some walk.\'94\
\
They were dragging themselves down the street again with the black\
riverwind in their teeth.\
\
\'93Look out.\'94 A policeman passed whistling softly to himself. They drew\
apart. \'93Oh Francie they\'92ll be takin us to the nuthouse if we keep this\
up. Let\'92s go to your room.\'94\
\
\'93Landlady\'92ll throw me out, that\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93I wont make any noise.... You got your key aint ye? I\'92ll sneak out\
before light. Goddam it they make you feel like a skunk.\'94\
\
\'93All right Dutch let\'92s go home.... I dont care no more what happens.\'94\
\
They walked up mudtracked stairs to the top floor of the tenement.\
\
\'93Take off your shoes,\'94 she hissed in his ear as she slipped the key in\
the lock.\
\
\'93I got holes in my stockings.\'94\
\
\'93That dont matter, silly. I\'92ll see if it\'92s all right. My room\'92s way\
back past the kitchen so if they\'92re all in bed they cant hear us.\'94\
\
When she left him he could hear his heart beating. In a second she came\
back. He tiptoed after her down a creaky hall. A sound of snoring came\
through a door. There was a smell of cabbage and sleep in the hall.\
Once in her room she locked the door and put a chair against it under\
the knob. A triangle of ashen light came in from the street. \'93Now for\
crissake keep still Dutch.\'94 One shoe still in each hand he reached for\
her and hugged her.\
\
He lay beside her whispering on and on with his lips against her ear.\
\'93And Francie I\'92ll make good, honest I will; I got to be a sergeant\
overseas till they busted me for goin A.W.O.L. That shows I got it in\
me. Once I get a chance I\'92ll make a whole lot of jack and you an me\'92ll\
go back an see Ch\'e2teau Teery an Paree an all that stuff; honest you\'92d\
like it Francie ... Jez the towns are old and funny and quiet and\
cozy-like an they have the swellest ginmills where you sit outside at\
little tables in the sun an watch the people pass an the food\'92s swell\
too once you get to like it an they have hotels all over where we could\
have gone like tonight an they dont care if your married or nutten. An\
they have big beds all cozy made of wood and they bring ye up breakfast\
in bed. Jez Francie you\'92d like it.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
They were walking to dinner through the snow. Big snowfeathers spun and\
spiraled about them mottling the glare of the streets with blue and\
pink and yellow, blotting perspectives.\
\
\'93Ellie I hate to have you take that job.... You ought to keep on with\
your acting.\'94\
\
\'93But Jimps, we\'92ve got to live.\'94\
\
\'93I know ... I know. You\'92d certainly didn\'92t have your wits about you\
Ellie when you married me.\'94\
\
\'93Oh let\'92s not talk about it any more.\'94\
\
\'93Do let\'92s have a good time tonight.... It\'92s the first snow.\'94\
\
\'93Is this the place?\'94 They stood before an unlighted basement door\
covered by a closemeshed grating. \'93Let\'92s try.\'94\
\
\'93Did the bell ring?\'94\
\
\'93I think so.\'94\
\
The inner door opened and a girl in a pink apron peered out at them.\
\'93Bon soir mademoiselle.\'94\
\
\'93Ah ... bon soir monsieur \'92dame.\'94 She ushered them into a foodsmelling\
gaslit hall hung with overcoats and hats and mufflers. Through a\
curtained door the restaurant blew in their faces a hot breath of bread\
and cocktails and frying butter and perfumes and lipsticks and clatter\
and jingling talk.\
\
\'93I can smell absinthe,\'94 said Ellen. \'93Let\'92s get terribly tight.\'94\
\
\'93Good Lord, there\'92s Congo.... Dont you remember Congo Jake at the\
Seaside Inn?\'94\
\
He stood bulky at the end of the corridor beckoning to them. His face\
was very tanned and he had a glossy black mustache. \'93Hello Meester\
\'92Erf.... Ow are you?\'94\
\
\'93Fine as silk. Congo I want you to meet my wife.\'94\
\
\'93If you dont mind the keetchen we will \'92ave a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Of course we dont.... It\'92s the best place in the house. Why you\'92re\
limping.... What did you do to your leg?\'94\
\
\'93Foutu ... I left it en Italie.... I couldnt breeng it along once\
they\'92d cut it off.\'94\
\
\'93How was that?\'94\
\
\'93Damn fool thing on Mont Tomba.... My bruderinlaw e gave me a very\
beautiful artificial leemb.... Sit \'92ere. Look madame now can you tell\
which is which?\'94\
\
\'93No I cant,\'94 said Ellie laughing. They were at a little marble table\
in the corner of the crowded kitchen. A girl was dishing out at a deal\
table in the center. Two cooks worked over the stove. The air was rich\
with sizzling fatty foodsmells. Congo hobbled back to them with three\
glasses on a small tray. He stood over them while they drank.\
\
\'93Salut,\'94 he said, raising his glass. \'93Absinthe cocktail, like they make\
it in New Orleans.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a knockout.\'94 Congo took a card out of his vest pocket:\
\
                        MARQUIS DES COULOMMIERS\
                                IMPORTS\
\
                            Riverside 11121\
\
\'93Maybe some day you need some little ting ... I deal in nutting but\
prewar imported. I am the best bootleggair in New York.\'94\
\
\'93If I ever get any money I certainly will spend it on you Congo.... How\
do you find business?\'94\
\
\'93Veree good.... I tell you about it. Tonight I\'92m too busee.... Now I\
find you a table in the restaurant.\'94\
\
\'93Do you run this place too?\'94\
\
\'93No this my bruderinlaw\'92s place.\'94\
\
\'93I didnt know you had a sister.\'94\
\
\'93Neither did I.\'94\
\
When Congo limped away from their table silence came down between them\
like an asbestos curtain in a theater.\
\
\'93He\'92s a funny duck,\'94 said Jimmy forcing a laugh.\
\
\'93He certainly is.\'94\
\
\'93Look Ellie let\'92s have another cocktail.\'94\
\
\'93Allright.\'94\
\
\'93I must get hold of him and get some stories about bootleggers out of\
him.\'94\
\
When he stretched his legs out under the table he touched her feet. She\
drew them away. Jimmy could feel his jaws chewing, they clanked so loud\
under his cheeks he thought Ellie must hear them. She sat opposite him\
in a gray tailoredsuit, her neck curving up heartbreakingly from the\
ivory V left by the crisp frilled collar of her blouse, her head tilted\
under her tight gray hat, her lips made up; cutting up little pieces of\
meat and not eating them, not saying a word.\
\
\'93Gosh ... let\'92s have another cocktail.\'94 He felt paralyzed like in a\
nightmare; she was a porcelaine figure under a bellglass. A current of\
fresh snowrinsed air from somewhere eddied all of a sudden through the\
blurred packed jangling glare of the restaurant, cut the reek of food\
and drink and tobacco. For an instant he caught the smell of her hair.\
The cocktails burned in him. God I dont want to pass out.\
\
Sitting in the restaurant of the Gare de Lyon, side by side on the\
black leather bench. His cheek brushes hers when he reaches to put\
herring, butter, sardines, anchovies, sausage on her plate. They eat in\
a hurry, gobbling, giggling, gulp wine, start at every screech of an\
engine....\
\
The train pulls out of Avignon, they two awake, looking in each other\'92s\
eyes in the compartment full of sleep-sodden snoring people. He lurches\
clambering over tangled legs, to smoke a cigarette at the end of the\
dim oscillating corridor. Diddledeump, going south, Diddledeump, going\
south, sing the wheels over the rails down the valley of the Rhone.\
Leaning in the window, smoking a broken cigarette, trying to smoke a\
crumbling cigarette, holding a finger over the torn place. Glubglub\
glubglub from the bushes, from the silverdripping poplars along the\
track.\
\
\'93Ellie, Ellie there are nightingales singing along the track.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I was asleep darling.\'94 She gropes to him stumbling across the\
legs of sleepers. Side by side in the window in the lurching jiggling\
corridor.\
\
Deedledeump, going south. Gasp of nightingales along the track among\
the silverdripping poplars. The insane cloudy night of moonlight smells\
of gardens garlic rivers freshdunged field roses. Gasp of nightingales.\
\
Opposite him the Elliedoll was speaking. \'93He says the lobstersalad\'92s\
all out.... Isnt that discouraging?\'94\
\
Suddenly he had his tongue. \'93Gosh if that were the only thing.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93Why did we come back to this rotten town anyway?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve been burbling about how wonderful it was ever since we came\
back.\'94\
\
\'93I know. I guess it\'92s sour grapes.... I\'92m going to have another\
cocktail.... Ellie for heaven\'92s sake what\'92s the matter with us?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re going to be sick if we keep this up I tell you.\'94\
\
\'93Well let\'92s be sick.... Let\'92s be good and sick.\'94\
\
When they sit up in the great bed they can see across the harbor, can\
see the yards of a windjammer and a white sloop and a red and green toy\
tug and plainfaced houses opposite beyond a peacock stripe of water;\
when they lie down they can see gulls in the sky. At dusk dressing\
rockily, shakily stumbling through the mildewed corridors of the hotel\
out into streets noisy as a brass band, full of tambourine rattle,\
brassy shine, crystal glitter, honk and whir of motors.... Alone\
together in the dusk drinking sherry under a broad-leaved plane, alone\
together in the juggled particolored crowds like people invisible.\
And the spring night comes up over the sea terrible out of Africa and\
settles about them.\
\
They had finished their coffee. Jimmy had drunk his very slowly as if\
some agony waited for him when he finished it.\
\
\'93Well I was afraid we\'92d find the Barneys here,\'94 said Ellen.\
\
\'93Do they know about this place?\'94\
\
\'93You brought them here yourself Jimps.... And that dreadful woman\
insisted on talking babies with me all the evening. I hate talking\
babies.\'94\
\
\'93Gosh I wish we could go to a show.\'94\
\
\'93It would be too late anyway.\'94\
\
\'93And just spending money I havent got.... Lets have a cognac to top off\
with. I don\'92t care if it ruins us.\'94\
\
\'93It probably will in more ways than one.\'94\
\
\'93Well Ellie, here\'92s to the breadwinner who\'92s taken up the white man\'92s\
burden.\'94\
\
\'93Why Jimmy I think it\'92ll be rather fun to have an editorial job for a\
while.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d find it fun to have any kind of job.... Well I can always stay\
home and mind the baby.\'94\
\
\'93Dont be so bitter Jimmy, it\'92s just temporary.\'94\
\
\'93Life\'92s just temporary for that matter.\'94\
\
The taxi drew up. Jimmy paid him with his last dollar. Ellie had\
her key in the outside door. The street was a confusion of driving\
absintheblurred snow. The door of their apartment closed behind them.\
Chairs, tables, books, windowcurtains crowded about them bitter with\
the dust of yesterday, the day before, the day before that. Smells of\
diapers and coffeepots and typewriter oil and Dutch Cleanser oppressed\
them. Ellen put out the empty milkbottle and went to bed. Jimmy\
kept walking nervously about the front room. His drunkenness ebbed\
away leaving him icily sober. In the empty chamber of his brain a\
doublefaced word clinked like a coin: Success Failure, Success Failure.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
    I\'92m just wild about Harree\
    And Harry\'92s just wild about me\
\
she hums under her breath as she dances. It\'92s a long hall with a band\
at one end, lit greenishly by two clusters of electric lights hanging\
among paper festoons in the center. At the end where the door is, a\
varnished rail holds back the line of men. This one Anna\'92s dancing\
with is a tall square built Swede, his big feet trail clumsily after\
her tiny lightly tripping feet. The music stops. Now it\'92s a little\
blackhaired slender Jew. He tries to snuggle close.\
\
\'93Quit that.\'94 She holds him away from her.\
\
\'93Aw have a heart.\'94\
\
She doesn\'92t answer, dances with cold precision; she\'92s sickeningly tired.\
\
    Me and my boyfriend\
    My boyfriend and I\
\
An Italian breathes garlic in her face, a marine sergeant, a Greek,\
a blond young kid with pink cheeks, she gives him a smile; a drunken\
elderly man who tries to kiss her ... _Charley my boy O Charley my\
boy_ ... slickhaired, freckled rumplehaired, pimplefaced, snubnosed,\
straightnosed, quick dancers, heavy dancers.... _Goin souf_.... _Wid de\
taste o de sugarcane right in my mouf_ ... against her back big hands,\
hot hands, sweaty hands, cold hands, while her dancechecks mount up,\
get to be a wad in her fist. This one\'92s a good waltzer, genteel-like in\
a black suit.\
\
\'93Gee I\'92m tired,\'94 she whispers.\
\
\'93Dancing never tires me.\'94\
\
\'93Oh it\'92s dancin with everybody like this.\'94\
\
\'93Dont you want to come an dance with me all alone somewhere?\'94\
\
\'93Boyfrien\'92s waitin for me after.\'94\
\
    With nothing but a photograph\
    To tell my troubles to ...\
    What\'92ll I do...?\
\
\'93What time\'92s it?\'94 she asks a broadchested wise guy. \'93Time you an me was\
akwainted, sister....\'94 She shakes her head. Suddenly the music bursts\
into Auld Lang Syne. She breaks away from him and runs to the desk in a\
crowd of girls elbowing to turn in their dancechecks. \'93Say Anna,\'94 says\
a broadhipped blond girl ... \'93did ye see that sap was dancin wid me?...\
He says to me the sap he says See you later an I says to him the sap I\
says see yez in hell foist ... an then he says, Goily he says ...\'94\
\
\
\
\
III. Revolving Doors\
\
          _Glowworm trains shuttle in the gloaming through the foggy\
          looms of spiderweb bridges, elevators soar and drop in\
          their shafts, harbor lights wink._\
\
          _Like sap at the first frost at five o\'92clock men and\
          women begin to drain gradually out of the tall buildings\
          downtown, grayfaced throngs flood subways and tubes, vanish\
          underground._\
\
          _All night the great buildings stand quiet and empty,\
          their million windows dark. Drooling light the ferries\
          chew tracks across the lacquered harbor. At midnight the\
          fourfunneled express steamers slide into the dark out\
          of their glary berths. Bankers blearyeyed from secret\
          conferences hear the hooting of the tugs as they are let\
          out of side doors by lightningbug watchmen; they settle\
          grunting into the back seats of limousines, and are whisked\
          uptown into the Forties, clinking streets of ginwhite\
          whiskey-yellow ciderfizzling lights._\
\
\
She sat at the dressingtable coiling her hair. He stood over her with\
the lavender suspenders hanging from his dress trousers prodding the\
diamond studs into his shirt with stumpy fingers.\
\
\'93Jake I wish we were out of it,\'94 she whined through the hairpins in her\
mouth.\
\
\'93Out of what Rosie?\'94\
\
\'93The Prudence Promotion Company.... Honest I\'92m worried.\'94\
\
\'93Why everything\'92s goin swell. We\'92ve got to bluff out Nichols that\'92s\
all.\'94\
\
\'93Suppose he prosecutes?\'94\
\
\'93Oh he wont. He\'92d lose a lot of money by it. He\'92d much better come in\
with us.... I can pay him in cash in a week anyways. If we can keep him\
thinkin we got money we\'92ll have him eatin out of our hands. Didn\'92t he\
say he\'92d be at the El Fey tonight?\'94\
\
Rosie had just put a rhinestone comb into the coil of her black hair.\
She nodded and got to her feet. She was a plump broadhipped woman with\
big black eyes and higharched eyebrows. She wore a corset trimmed with\
yellow lace and a pink silk chemise.\
\
\'93Put on everythin you\'92ve got Rosie. I want yez all dressed up like a\
Christmas tree. We\'92re goin to the El Fey an stare Nichols down tonight.\
Then tomorrer I\'92ll go round and put the proposition up to him.... Lets\
have a little snifter anyways ...\'94 He went to the phone. \'93Send up some\
cracked ice and a couple of bottles of White Rock to four o four.\
Silverman\'92s the name. Make it snappy.\'94\
\
\'93Jake let\'92s make a getaway,\'94 Rosie cried suddenly. She stood in\
the closet door with a dress over her arm. \'93I cant stand all this\
worry.... It\'92s killin me. Let\'92s you an me beat it to Paris or Havana or\
somewheres and start out fresh.\'94\
\
\'93Then we would be up the creek. You can be extradited for grand\
larceny. Jez you wouldnt have me goin round with dark glasses and false\
whiskers all my life.\'94\
\
Rosie laughed. \'93No I guess you wouldnt look so good in a fake zit....\
Oh I wish we were really married at least.\'94\
\
\'93Dont make no difference between us Rosie. Then they\'92d be after me for\
bigamy too. That\'92d be pretty.\'94\
\
Rosie shuddered at the bellboy\'92s knock. Jake Silverman put the tray\
with its clinking bowl of ice on the bureau and fetched a square\
whiskeybottle out of the wardrobe.\
\
\'93Dont pour out any for me. I havent got the heart for it.\'94\
\
\'93Kid you\'92ve got to pull yourself together. Put on the glad rags an\
we\'92ll go to a show. Hell I been in lots o tighter holes than this.\'94\
With his highball in his hand he went to the phone. \'93I want the\
newsstand.... Hello cutie.... Sure I\'92m an old friend of yours.... Sure\
you know me.... Look could you get me two seats for the Follies....\
That\'92s the idear.... No I cant sit back of the eighth row.... That\'92s a\
good little girl.... An you\'92ll call me in ten minutes will you dearie?\'94\
\
\'93Say Jake is there really any borax in that lake?\'94\
\
\'93Sure there is. Aint we got the affidavit of four experts?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. I was just kinder wonderin.... Say Jake if this ever gets wound\
up will you promise me not to go in for any more wildcat schemes?\'94\
\
\'93Sure; I wont need to.... My you\'92re a redhot mommer in that dress.\'94\
\
\'93Do you like it?\'94\
\
\'93You look like Brazil ... I dunno ... kinder tropical.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the secret of my dangerous charm.\'94\
\
The phone rang jingling sharp. They jumped to their feet. She pressed\
the side of her hand against her lips.\
\
\'93Two in the fourth row. That\'92s fine.... We\'92ll be right down an get\
em ... Jez Rosie you cant go on being jumpy like; you\'92re gettin me all\
shot too. Pull yerself together why cant you?\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go out an eat Jake. I havent had anything but buttermilk all\
day. I guess I\'92ll stop tryin to reduce. This worryin\'92ll make me thin\
enough.\'94\
\
\'93You got to quit it Rosie.... It\'92s gettin my nerve.\'94\
\
They stopped at the flowerstall in the lobby. \'93I want a gardenia\'94 he\
said. He puffed his chest out and smiled his curlylipped smile as the\
girl fixed it in the buttonhole of his dinnercoat. \'93What\'92ll you have\
dear?\'94 he turned grandiloquently to Rosie. She puckered her mouth. \'93I\
dont just know what\'92ll go with my dress.\'94\
\
\'93While you\'92re deciding I\'92ll go get the theater tickets.\'94 With his\
overcoat open and turned back to show the white puffedout shirtfront\
and his cuffs shot out over his thick hands he strutted over to the\
newsstand. Out of the corner of her eye while the ends of the red\
roses were being wrapped in silver paper Rosie could see him leaning\
across the magazines talking babytalk to the blond girl. He came back\
brighteyed with a roll of bills in his hand. She pinned the roses on\
her fur coat, put her arm in his and together they went through the\
revolving doors into the cold glistening electric night. \'93Taxi,\'94 he\
yapped.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The diningroom smelled of toast and coffee and the New York _Times_.\
The Merivales were breakfasting to electric light. Sleet beat against\
the windows. \'93Well Paramount\'92s fallen off five points more,\'94 said James\
from behind the paper.\
\
\'93Oh James I think its horrid to be such a tease,\'94 whined Maisie who was\
drinking her coffee in little henlike sips.\
\
\'93And anyway,\'94 said Mrs. Merivale, \'93Jack\'92s not with Paramount any more.\
He\'92s doing publicity for the Famous Players.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s coming east in two weeks. He says he hopes to be here for the\
first of the year.\'94\
\
\'93Did you get another wire Maisie?\'94\
\
Maisie nodded. \'93Do you know James, Jack never will write a letter. He\
always telegraphs,\'94 said Mrs. Merivale through the paper at her son.\
\'93He certainly keeps the house choked up with flowers,\'94 growled James\
from behind the paper.\
\
\'93All by telegraph,\'94 said Mrs. Merivale triumphantly.\
\
James put down his paper. \'93Well I hope he\'92s as good a fellow as he\
seems to be.\'94\
\
\'93Oh James you\'92re horrid about Jack.... I think it\'92s mean.\'94 She got to\
her feet and went through the curtains into the parlor.\
\
\'93Well if he\'92s going to be my brother-in-law, I think I ought to have a\
say in picking him,\'94 he grumbled.\
\
Mrs. Merivale went after her. \'93Come back and finish your breakfast\
Maisie, he\'92s just a terrible tease.\'94\
\
\'93I wont have him talk that way about Jack.\'94\
\
\'93But Maisie I think Jack\'92s a dear boy.\'94 She put her arm round her\
daughter and led her back to the table. \'93He\'92s so simple and I know he\
has good impulses.... I\'92m sure he\'92s going to make you very happy.\'94\
Maisie sat down again pouting under the pink bow of her boudoir cap.\
\'93Mother may I have another cup of coffee?\'94\
\
\'93Deary you know you oughtnt to drink two cups. Dr. Fernald said that\
was what was making you so nervous.\'94\
\
\'93Just a little bit mother very weak. I want to finish this muffin and I\
simply cant eat it without something to wash it down, and you know you\
dont want me to lose any more weight.\'94 James pushed back his chair and\
went out with the _Times_ under his arm. \'93It\'92s half past eight James,\'94\
said Mrs. Merivale. \'93He\'92s likely to take an hour when he gets in there\
with that paper.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 said Maisie peevishly. \'93I think I\'92ll go back to bed. I think\
it\'92s silly the way we all get up to breakfast. There\'92s something so\
vulgar about it mother. Nobody does it any more. At the Perkinses\'92 it\
comes up to you in bed on a tray.\'94\
\
\'93But James has to be at the bank at nine.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s no reason why we should drag ourselves out of bed. That\'92s how\
people get their faces all full of wrinkles.\'94\
\
\'93But we wouldn\'92t see James until dinnertime, and I like to get up\
early. The morning\'92s the loveliest part of the day.\'94 Maisie yawned\
desperately.\
\
James appeared in the doorway to the hall running a brush round his hat.\
\
\'93What did you do with the paper James?\'94\
\
\'93Oh I left it in there.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll get it, never mind.... My dear you\'92ve got your stickpin in\
crooked. I\'92ll fix it.... There.\'94 Mrs. Merivale put her hands on his\
shoulders and looked in her son\'92s face. He wore a dark gray suit with a\
faint green stripe in it, an olive green knitted necktie with a small\
gold nugget stickpin, olive green woolen socks with black clockmarks\
and dark red Oxford shoes, their laces neatly tied with doubleknots\
that never came undone. \'93James arent you carrying your cane?\'94 He had\
an olive green woolen muffler round his neck and was slipping into his\
dark brown winter overcoat. \'93I notice the younger men down there dont\
carry them, mother ... People might think it was a little ... I dont\
know ...\'94\
\
\'93But Mr. Perkins carries a cane with a gold parrothead.\'94\
\
\'93Yes but he\'92s one of the vicepresidents, he can do what he likes....\
But I\'92ve got to run.\'94 James Merivale hastily kissed his mother and\
sister. He put on his gloves going down in the elevator. Ducking his\
head into the sleety wind he walked quickly east along Seventysecond.\
At the subway entrance he bought a _Tribune_ and hustled down the steps\
to the jammed soursmelling platform.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
_Chicago! Chicago!_ came in bursts out of the shut phonograph. Tony\
Hunter, slim in a black closecut suit, was dancing with a girl who kept\
putting her mass of curly ashblond hair on his shoulder. They were\
alone in the hotel sitting room.\
\
\'93Sweetness you\'92re a lovely dancer,\'94 she cooed snuggling closer.\
\
\'93Think so Nevada?\'94\
\
\'93Um-hum ... Sweetness have you noticed something about me?\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s that Nevada?\'94\
\
\'93Havent you noticed something about my eyes?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re the loveliest little eyes in the world.\'94\
\
\'93Yes but there\'92s something about them.\'94\
\
\'93You mean that one of them\'92s green and the other one brown.\'94\
\
\'93Oh it noticed the tweet lil ting.\'94 She tilted her mouth up at him. He\
kissed it. The record came to an end. They both ran over to stop it.\
\'93That wasnt much of a kiss, Tony,\'94 said Nevada Jones tossing her curls\
out of her eyes. They put on _Shuffle Along_.\
\
\'93Say Tony,\'94 she said when they had started dancing again. \'93What did the\
psychoanalyst say when you went to see him yesterday?\'94\
\
\'93Oh nothing much, we just talked,\'94 said Tony with a sigh. \'93He said it\
was all imaginary. He suggested I get to know some girls better. He\'92s\
all right. He doesn\'92t know what he\'92s talking about though. He cant do\
anything.\'94\
\
\'93I bet you I could.\'94\
\
They stopped dancing and looked at each other with the blood burning in\
their faces.\
\
\'93Knowing you Nevada,\'94 he said in a doleful tone \'93has meant more to\
me ... You\'92re so decent to me. Everybody\'92s always been so nasty.\'94\
\
\'93Aint he solemn though?\'94 She walked over thoughtfully and stopped the\
phonograph.\
\
\'93Some joke on George I\'92ll say.\'94\
\
\'93I feel horribly about it. He\'92s been so decent.... And after all I\
could never have afforded to go to Dr. Baumgardt at all.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s his own fault. He\'92s a damn fool.... If he thinks he can buy me\
with a little hotel accommodation and theater tickets he\'92s got another\
think coming. But honestly Tony you must keep on with that doctor. He\
did wonders with Glenn Gaston.... He thought he was that way until he\
was thirtyfive years old and the latest thing I hear he\'92s married an\
had a pair of twins.... Now give me a real kiss sweetest. Thataboy.\
Let\'92s dance some more. Gee you\'92re a beautiful dancer. Kids like you\
always are. I dont know why it is....\'94\
\
The phone cut into the room suddenly with a glittering sawtooth ring.\
\'93Hello.... Yes this is Miss Jones.... Why of course George I\'92m waiting\
for you....\'94 She put up the receiver. \'93Great snakes, Tony beat it.\
I\'92ll call you later. Dont go down in the elevator you\'92ll meet him\
coming up.\'94 Tony Hunter melted out the door. Nevada put _Baby ...\
Babee Deewine_ on the phonograph and strode nervously about the room,\
straightening chairs, patting her tight short curls into place.\
\
\'93Oh George I thought you werent comin.... How do you do Mr. McNiel? I\
dunno why I\'92m all jumpy today. I thought you were never comin. Let\'92s\
get some lunch up. I\'92m that hungry.\'94\
\
George Baldwin put his derby hat and stick on a table in the corner.\
\'93What\'92ll you have Gus?\'94 he said. \'93Sure I always take a lamb chop an a\
baked potato.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m just taking crackers and milk, my stomach\'92s a little out of\
order.... Nevada see if you cant frisk up a highball for Mr. McNiel.\'94\
\
\'93Well I could do with a highball George.\'94\
\
\'93George order me half a broiled chicken lobster and some alligator pear\
salad,\'94 screeched Nevada from the bathroom where she was cracking ice.\
\
\'93She\'92s the greatest girl for lobster,\'94 said Baldwin laughing as he went\
to the phone.\
\
She came back from the bathroom with two highballs on a tray; she had\
put a scarlet and parrotgreen batik scarf round her neck. \'93Just you\
an me\'92s drinkin Mr. McNiel.... George is on the water wagon. Doctor\'92s\
orders.\'94\
\
\'93Nevada what do you say we go to a musical show this afternoon? There\'92s\
a lot of business I want to get off my mind.\'94\
\
\'93I just love matinees. Do you mind if we take Tony Hunter. He called\
up he was lonesome and wanted to come round this afternoon. He\'92s not\
workin this week.\'94\
\
\'93All right.... Nevada will you excuse us if we talk business for just\
a second over here by the window. We\'92ll forget it by the time lunch\
comes.\'94\
\
\'93All righty I\'92ll change my dress.\'94\
\
\'93Sit down here Gus.\'94\
\
They sat silent a moment looking out of the window at the red girder\
cage of the building under construction next door. \'93Well Gus,\'94 said\
Baldwin suddenly harshly, \'93I\'92m in the race.\'94\
\
\'93Good for you George, we need men like you.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to run on a Reform ticket.\'94\
\
\'93The hell you are?\'94\
\
\'93I wanted to tell you Gus rather than have you hear it by a roundabout\
way.\'94\
\
\'93Who\'92s goin to elect you?\'94\
\
\'93Oh I\'92ve got my backing.... I\'92ll have a good press.\'94\
\
\'93Press hell.... We\'92ve got the voters.... But Goddam it if it hadn\'92t\
been for me your name never would have come up for district attorney at\
all.\'94\
\
\'93I know you\'92ve always been a good friend of mine and I hope you\'92ll\
continue to be.\'94\
\
\'93I never went back on a guy yet, but Jez, George, it\'92s give and take in\
this world.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 broke in Nevada advancing towards them with little dancesteps,\
wearing a flamingo pink silk dress, \'93havent you boys argued enough yet?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re through,\'94 growled Gus. \'93... Say Miss Nevada, how did you get\
that name?\'94\
\
\'93I was born in Reno.... My mother\'92d gone there to get a divorce....\
Gosh she was sore.... Certainly put my foot in it that time.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Anna Cohen stands behind the counter under the sign THE BEST SANDWICH\
IN NEW YORK. Her feet ache in her pointed shoes with runover heels.\
\
\'93Well I guess they\'92ll begin soon or else we\'92re in for a slack day,\'94\
says the sodashaker beside her. He\'92s a raw-faced man with a sharp\
adamsapple. \'93It allus comes all of a rush like.\'94\
\
\'93Yeh, looks like they all got the same idear at the same time.\'94 They\
stand looking out through the glass partition at the endless files of\
people jostling in and out of the subway. All at once she slips away\
from the counter and back into the stuffy kitchenette where a stout\
elderly woman is tidying up the stove. There is a mirror hanging on a\
nail in the corner. Anna fetches a powderbox from the pocket of her\
coat on the rack and starts powdering her nose. She stands a second\
with the tiny puff poised looking at her broad face with the bangs\
across the forehead and the straight black bobbed hair. A homely lookin\
kike, she says to herself bitterly. She is slipping back to her place\
at the counter when she runs into the manager, a little fat Italian\
with a greasy bald head. \'93Cant you do nutten but primp an look in de\
glass all day?... Veree good you\'92re fired.\'94\
\
She stares at his face sleek like an olive. \'93Kin I stay out my day?\'94\
she stammers. He nods. \'93Getta move on; this aint no beauty parlor.\'94\
She hustles back to her place at the counter. The stools are all full.\
Girls, officeboys, grayfaced bookkeepers. \'93Chicken sandwich and a cup o\
caufee.\'94 \'93Cream cheese and olive sandwich and a glass of buttermilk.\'94\
\
\'93Chocolate sundae.\'94\
\
\'93Egg sandwich, coffee and doughnuts.\'94 \'93Cup of boullion.\'94 \'93Chicken\
broth.\'94 \'93Chocolate icecream soda.\'94 People eat hurriedly without looking\
at each other, with their eyes on their plates, in their cups. Behind\
the people sitting on stools those waiting nudge nearer. Some eat\
standing up. Some turn their backs on the counter and eat looking\
out through the glass partition and the sign HCNUL ENIL NEERG at the\
jostling crowds filing in and out the subway through the drabgreen\
gloom.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Well Joey tell me all about it,\'94 said Gus McNiel puffing a great cloud\
of smoke out of his cigar and leaning back in his swivel chair. \'93What\
are you guys up to over there in Flatbush?\'94\
\
O\'92Keefe cleared his throat and shuffled his feet. \'93Well sir we got an\
agitation committee.\'94\
\
\'93I should say you had.... That aint no reason for raidin the Garment\
Workers\'92 ball is it?\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t have nothin to do with that.... The bunch got sore at all\
these pacifists and reds.\'94\
\
\'93That stuff was all right a year ago, but public sentiment\'92s changin. I\
tell you Joe the people of this country are pretty well fed up with war\
heroes.\'94\
\
\'93We got a livewire organization over there.\'94\
\
\'93I know you have Joe. I know you have. Trust you for that.... I\'92d put\
the soft pedal on the bonus stuff though.... The State of New York\'92s\
done its duty by the ex-service man.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s true enough.\'94\
\
\'93A national bonus means taxes to the average business man and nothing\
else.... Nobody wants no more taxes.\'94\
\
\'93Still I think the boys have got it comin to em.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve all of us got a whole lot comin to us we dont never get.... For\
crissake dont quote me on this.... Joey fetch yourself a cigar from\
that box over there. Frien o mine sent em up from Havana by a naval\
officer.\'94\
\
\'93Thankye sir.\'94\
\
\'93Go ahead take four or five.\'94\
\
\'93Jez thank you.\'94\
\
\'93Say Joey how\'92ll you boys line up on the mayoralty election?\'94\
\
\'93That depends on the general attitude towards the needs of the\
ex-service man.\'94\
\
\'93Look here Joey you\'92re a smart feller ...\'94\
\
\'93Oh they\'92ll line up all right. I kin talk em around.\'94\
\
\'93How many guys have you got over there?\'94\
\
\'93The Sheamus O\'92Rielly Post\'92s got three hundred members an new ones\
signin up every day.... We\'92re gettin em from all over. We\'92re goin to\
have a Christmas dance an some fights in the Armory if we can get hold\
of any pugs.\'94\
\
Gus McNiel threw back his head on his bullneck and laughed. \'93Thataboy!\'94\
\
\'93But honest the bonus is the only way we kin keep the boys together.\'94\
\
\'93Suppose I come over and talk to em some night.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92d be all right, but they\'92re dead sot against anybody who aint got\
a war record.\'94\
\
McNiel flushed. \'93Come back feeling kinder smart, dont ye, you guys from\
overseas?\'94 He laughed. \'93That wont last more\'92n a year or two.... I seen\
em come back from the Spanish American War, remember that Joe.\'94\
\
An officeboy came in an laid a card on the desk. \'93A lady to see you Mr.\
McNiel.\'94\
\
\'93All right show her in.... It\'92s that old bitch from the school\
board.... All right Joe, drop in again next week.... I\'92ll keep you in\
mind, you and your army.\'94\
\
Dougan was waiting in the outer office. He sidled up mysteriously.\
\'93Well Joe, how\'92s things?\'94\
\
\'93Pretty good,\'94 said Joe puffing out his chest. \'93Gus tells me Tammany\'92ll\
be right behind us in our drive for the bonus ... planning a nation\
wide campaign. He gave me some cigars a friend o his brought up by\
airplane from Havana.... Have one?\'94 With their cigars tilting up out\
of the corners of their mouths they walked briskly cockily across City\
Hall square. Opposite the old City Hall there was a scaffolding. Joe\
pointed at it with his cigar. \'93That there\'92s the new statue of Civic\
Virtue the mayor\'92s havin set up.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The steam of cooking wrenched at his knotted stomach as he passed\
Child\'92s. Dawn was sifting fine gray dust over the black ironcast\
city. Dutch Robertson despondently crossed Union Square, remembering\
Francie\'92s warm bed, the spicy smell of her hair. He pushed his hands\
deep in his empty pockets. Not a red, and Francie couldn\'92t give him\
anything. He walked east past the hotel on Fifteenth. A colored man was\
sweeping off the steps. Dutch looked at him enviously; he\'92s got a job.\
Milkwagons jingled by. On Stuyvesant Square a milkman brushed past him\
with a bottle in each hand. Dutch stuck out his jaw and talked tough.\
\'93Give us a swig o milk will yez?\'94 The milkman was a frail pinkfaced\
youngster. His blue eyes wilted. \'93Sure go round behind the wagon,\
there\'92s an open bottle under the seat. Dont let nobody see you drink\
it.\'94 He drank it in deep gulps, sweet and soothing to his parched\
throat. Jez I didn\'92t need to talk rough like that. He waited until the\
boy came back. \'93Thankye buddy, that was mighty white.\'94\
\
He walked into the chilly park and sat down on a bench. There was\
hoarfrost on the asphalt. He picked up a torn piece of pink evening\
newspaper. $500,000 HOLDUP. Bank Messenger Robbed in Wall Street Rush\
Hour.\
\
     In the busiest part of the noon hour two men held up\
     Adolphus St. John, a bank messenger for the Guarantee Trust\
     Company, and snatched from his hands a satchel containing a\
     half a million dollars in bills ...\
\
Dutch felt his heart pounding as he read the column. He was cold all\
over. He got to his feet and began thrashing his arms about.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Congo stumped through the turnstile at the end of the L line. Jimmy\
Herf followed him looking from one side to the other. Outside it was\
dark, a blizzard wind whistled about their ears. A single Ford sedan\
was waiting outside the station.\
\
\'93How you like, Meester \'92Erf?\'94\
\
\'93Fine Congo. Is that water?\'94\
\
\'93That Sheepshead Bay.\'94\
\
They walked along the road, dodging an occasional bluesteel glint of\
a puddle. The arclights had a look of shrunken grapes swaying in the\
wind. To the right and left were flickering patches of houses in the\
distance. They stopped at a long building propped on piles over the\
water. POOL; Jimmy barely made out the letters on an unlighted window.\
The door opened as they reached it. \'93Hello Mike,\'94 said Congo. \'93This is\
Meester \'92Erf, a frien\'92 o mine.\'94 The door closed behind them. Inside it\
was black as an oven. A calloused hand grabbed Jimmy\'92s hand in the dark.\
\
\'93Glad to meet you,\'94 said a voice.\
\
\'93Say how did you find my hand?\'94\
\
\'93Oh I kin see in the dark.\'94 The voice laughed throatily.\
\
By that time Congo had opened the inner door. Light streamed through\
picking out billiard tables, a long bar at the end, racks of cues.\
\'93This is Mike Cardinale,\'94 said Congo. Jimmy found himself standing\
beside a tall sallow shylooking man with bunchy black hair growing low\
on his forehead. In the inner room were shelves full of chinaware and\
a round table covered by a piece of mustardcolored oilcloth. \'93Eh la\
patronne,\'94 shouted Congo. A fat Frenchwoman with red applecheeks came\
out through the further door; behind her came a _chiff_ of sizzling\
butter and garlic. \'93This is frien o mine.... Now maybe we eat,\'94 shouted\
Congo. \'93She my wife,\'94 said Cardinale proudly. \'93Very deaf.... Have to\
talk loud.\'94 He turned and closed the door to the large hall carefully\
and bolted it. \'93No see lights from road,\'94 he said. \'93In summer,\'94 said\
Mrs. Cardinale, \'93sometime we give a hundred meals a day, or a hundred\
an fifty maybe.\'94\
\
\'93Havent you got a little peekmeup?\'94 said Congo. He let himself down\
with a grunt into a chair.\
\
Cardinale set a fat fiasco of wine on the table and some glasses. They\
tasted it smacking their lips. \'93Bettern Dago Red, eh Meester \'92Erf?\'94\
\
\'93It sure is. Tastes like real Chianti.\'94\
\
Mrs. Cardinale set six plates with a stained fork, knife, and spoon in\
each and then put a steaming tureen of soup in the middle of the table.\
\
\'93Pronto pasta,\'94 she shrieked in a guineahen voice. \'93Thisa Anetta,\'94 said\
Cardinale as a pinkcheeked blackhaired girl with long lashes curving\
back from bright black eyes ran into the room followed by a heavily\
tanned young man in khaki overalls with curly sunbleached hair. They\
all sat down at once and began to eat the peppery thick vegetable\
chowder, leaning far over their plates.\
\
When Congo had finished his soup he looked up. \'93Mike did you see\
lights?\'94 Cardinale nodded. \'93Sure ting ... be here any time.\'94 While they\
were eating a dish of fried eggs and garlic, frizzled veal cutlets with\
fried potatoes and broccoli, Herf began to hear in the distance the pop\
pop pop of a motorboat. Congo got up from the table with a motion to\
them to be quiet and looked out the window, cautiously lifting a corner\
of the shade. \'93That him,\'94 he said as he stumped back to the table. \'93We\
eat good here, eh Meester Erf?\'94\
\
The young man got to his feet wiping his mouth on his forearm. \'93Got a\
nickel Congo,\'94 he said doing a double shuffle with his sneakered feet.\
\'93Here go Johnny.\'94 The girl followed him out into the dark outer room.\
In a moment a mechanical piano started tinkling out a waltz. Through\
the door Jimmy could see them dancing in and out of the oblong of\
light. The chugging of the motorboat drew nearer. Congo went out, then\
Cardinale and his wife, until Jimmy was left alone sipping a glass of\
wine among the debris of the dinner. He felt excited and puzzled and\
a little drunk. Already he began to construct the story in his mind.\
From the road came the grind of gears of a truck, then of another. The\
motorboat engine choked, backfired and stopped. There was the creak of\
a boat against the piles, a swash of waves and silence. The mechanical\
piano had stopped. Jimmy sat sipping his wine. He could smell the\
rankness of salt marshes seeping into the house. Under him there was a\
little lapping sound of the water against the piles. Another motorboat\
was beginning to sputter in the far distance.\
\
\'93Got a nickel?\'94 asked Congo breaking into the room suddenly. \'93Make\
music.... Very funny night tonight. Maybe you and Annette keep piano\
goin. I didnt see McGee about landin.... Maybe somebody come. Must be\
veree quick.\'94 Jimmy got to his feet and started fishing in his pockets.\
By the piano he found Annette. \'93Wont you dance?\'94 She nodded. The piano\
played _Innocent Eyes_. They danced distractedly. Outside were voices\
and footsteps. \'93Please,\'94 she said all at once and they stopped dancing.\
The second motorboat had come very near; the motor coughed and rattled\
still. \'93Please stay here,\'94 she said and slipped away from him.\
\
Jimmy Herf walked up and down uneasily puffing on a cigarette. He was\
making up the story in his mind.... In a lonely abandoned dancehall on\
Sheepshead Bay ... lovely blooming Italian girl ... shrill whistle in\
the dark.... I ought to get out and see what\'92s going on. He groped\
for the front door. It was locked. He walked over to the piano and\
put another nickel in. Then he lit a fresh cigarette and started\
walking up and down again. Always the way ... a parasite on the drama\
of life, reporter looks at everything through a peephole. Never mixes\
in. The piano was playing _Yes We Have No Bananas_. \'93Oh hell!\'94 he kept\
muttering and ground his teeth and walked up and down.\
\
Outside the tramp of steps broke into a scuffle, voices snarled. There\
was a splintering of wood and the crash of breaking bottles. Jimmy\
looked out through the window of the diningroom. He could see the\
shadows of men struggling and slugging on the boatlanding. He rushed\
into the kitchen, where he bumped into Congo sweaty and staggering into\
the house leaning on a heavy cane.\
\
\'93Goddam ... dey break my leg,\'94 he shouted.\
\
\'93Good God.\'94 Jimmy helped him groaning into the diningroom.\
\
\'93Cost me feefty dollars to have it mended last time I busted it.\'94\
\
\'93You mean your cork leg?\'94\
\
\'93Sure what you tink?\'94\
\
\'93Is it prohibition agents?\'94\
\
\'93Prohibition agents nutten, goddam hijackers.... Go put a neeckel in\
the piano.\'94 _Beautiful Girl of My Dreams_, the piano responded gayly.\
\
When Jimmy got back to him, Congo was sitting in a chair nursing his\
stump with his two hands. On the table lay the cork and aluminum\
limb splintered and dented. \'93Regardez moi \'e7a ... c\'92est foutu ...\
completement foutu.\'94 As he spoke Cardinale came in. He had a deep gash\
over his eyes from which a trickle of blood ran down his cheek on his\
coat and shirt. His wife followed him rolling back her eyes; she had a\
basin and a sponge with which she kept making ineffectual dabs at his\
forehead. He pushed her away. \'93I crowned one of em good wid a piece o\
pipe. I think he fell in de water. God I hope he drownded.\'94 Johnny\
came in holding his head high. Annette had her arm round his waist. He\
had a black eye and one of the sleeves of his shirt hung in shreds.\
\'93Gee it was like in the movies,\'94 said Annette, giggling hysterically.\
\'93Wasnt he grand, mommer, wasn\'92t he grand?\'94\
\
\'93Jez it\'92s lucky they didn\'92t start shootin; one of em had a gun.\'94\
\
\'93Scared to I guess.\'94\
\
\'93Trucks are off.\'94\
\
\'93Just one case got busted up.... God there was five of them.\'94\
\
\'93Gee didnt he mix it up with em?\'94 screamed Annette.\
\
\'93Oh shut up,\'94 growled Cardinale. He had dropped into a chair and his\
wife was sponging off his face. \'93Did you get a good look at the boat?\'94\
asked Congo.\
\
\'93Too goddam dark,\'94 said Johnny. \'93Fellers talked like they came from\
Joisey.... First ting I knowed one of em comes up to me and sez I\'92m a\
revenue officer an I pokes him one before he has time to pull a gun an\
overboard he goes. Jez they were yeller. That guy George on the boat\
near brained one of em wid an oar. Then they got back in their old\
teakettle an beat it.\'94\
\
\'93But how they know how we make landin?\'94 stuttered Congo his face purple.\
\
\'93Some guy blabbed maybe,\'94 said Cardinale. \'93If I find out who it is, by\
God I\'92ll ...\'94 he made a popping noise with his lips.\
\
\'93You see Meester \'92Erf,\'94 said Congo in his suave voice again, \'93it was\
all champagne for the holidays.... Very valuable cargo eh?\'94 Annette,\
her cheeks very red sat still looking at Johnny with parted lips and\
toobright eyes. Herf found himself blushing as he looked at her.\
\
He got to his feet. \'93Well I must be getting back to the big city.\
Thank\'92s for the feed and the melodrama, Congo.\'94\
\
\'93You find station all right?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93Goodnight Meester \'92Erf, maybe you buy case of champagne for Christmas,\
genuine Mumms.\'94\
\
\'93Too darn broke Congo.\'94\
\
\'93Then maybe you sell to your friends an I give you commission.\'94\
\
\'93All right I\'92ll see what I can do.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll phone you tomorrow to tell price.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a fine idea. Good night.\'94\
\
Joggling home in the empty train through empty Brooklyn suburbs Jimmy\
tried to think of the bootlegging story he\'92d write for the Sunday\
Magazine Section. The girl\'92s pink cheeks and toobright eyes kept\
intervening, blurring the orderly arrangement of his thoughts. He sank\
gradually into dreamier and dreamier reverie. Before the kid was born\
Ellie sometimes had toobright eyes like that. The time on the hill when\
she had suddenly wilted in his arms and been sick and he had left her\
among the munching, calmly staring cows on the grassy slope and gone to\
a shepherd\'92s hut and brought back milk in a wooden ladle, and slowly as\
the mountains hunched up with evening the color had come back into her\
cheeks and she had looked at him that way and said with a dry little\
laugh: It\'92s the little Herf inside me. God why cant I stop mooning over\
things that are past? And when the baby was coming and Ellie was in the\
American Hospital at Neuilly, himself wandering distractedly through\
the fair, going into the Flea Circus, riding on merrygorounds and the\
steam swing, buying toys, candy, taking chances on dolls in a crazy\
blur, stumbling back to the hospital with a big plaster pig under his\
arm. Funny these fits of refuge in the past. Suppose she had died; I\
thought she would. The past would have been complete all round, framed,\
worn round your neck like a cameo, set up in type, molded on plates for\
the Magazine Section, like the first of James Herf\'92s articles on The\
Bootlegging Ring. Burning slugs of thought kept dropping into place\
spelled out by a clanking linotype.\
\
At midnight he was walking across Fourteenth. He didnt want to go home\
to bed although the rasping cold wind tore at his neck and chin with\
sharp ice claws. He walked west across Seventh and Eighth Avenues,\
found the name Roy Sheffield beside a bell in a dimly lit hall. As\
soon as he pressed the bell the catch on the door began to click. He\
ran up the stairs. Roy had his big curly head with its glass-gray\
gollywog eyes stuck out the door.\
\
\'93Hello Jimmy; come on in; we\'92re all lit up like churches.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve just seen a fight between bootleggers and hijackers.\'94\
\
\'93Where?\'94\
\
\'93Down at Sheepshead Bay.\'94\
\
\'93Here\'92s Jimmy Herf, he\'92s just been fighting prohibition agents,\'94\
shouted Roy to his wife. Alice had dark chestnut dollhair and an\
uptilted peaches and cream dollface. She ran up to Jimmy and kissed him\
on the chin. \'93Oh Jimmy do tell us all about it.... We\'92re so horribly\
bored.\'94\
\
\'93Hello,\'94 cried Jimmy; he had just made out Frances and Bob Hildebrand\
on the couch at the dim end of the room. They lifted their glasses to\
him. Jimmy was pushed into an armchair, had a glass of gin and ginger\
ale put in his hand. \'93Now what\'92s all this about a fight? You\'92d better\
tell us because were certainly not going to buy the Sunday _Tribune_ to\
find out,\'94 Bob Hildebrand said in a deep rumbling voice.\
\
Jimmy took a long drink. \'93I went out with a man I know who\'92s shiek of\
all the French and Italian bootleggers. He\'92s a fine man. He\'92s got a\
cork leg. He set me up to a swell feed and real Italian wine out in a\
deserted poolroom on the shores of Sheepshead Bay....\'94\
\
\'93By the way,\'94 asked Roy, \'93where\'92s Helena.\'94\
\
\'93Dont interrupt Roy,\'94 said Alice. \'93This is good ... and besides you\
should never ask a man where his wife is.\'94\
\
\'93Then there was a lot of flashing of signal lights and stuff and a\
motorboat loaded down with Mumm\'92s extra dry champagne for Park Avenue\
Christmases came in and the hijackers arrived on a speedboat.... It\
probably was a hydroplane it came so fast ...\'94\
\
\'93My this is exciting,\'94 cooed Alice. \'93... Roy why dont you take up\
bootlegging?\'94\
\
\'93Worst fight I ever saw outside of the movies, six or seven on a side\
all slugging each other on a little narrow landing the size of this\
room, people crowning each other with oars and joints of lead pipe.\'94\
\
\'93Was anybody hurt?\'94\
\
\'93Everybody was.... I think two of the hijackers were drowned. At any\
rate they beat a retreat leaving us lapping up the spilled champagne.\'94\
\
\'93But it must have been terrible,\'94 cried the Hildebrands. \'93What did you\
do Jimmy?\'94 asked Alice breathless.\
\
\'93Oh I hopped around keeping out of harm\'92s way. I didnt know who was\
on which side and it was dark and wet and confusing everywhere.... I\
finally did drag my bootlegger friend out of the fray when he got his\
leg broken ... his wooden leg.\'94\
\
Everybody let out a shout. Roy filled Jimmy\'92s glass up with gin again.\
\
\'93Oh Jimmy,\'94 cooed Alice, \'93you lead the most thrilling life.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
James Merivale was going over a freshly decoded cable, tapping the\
words with a pencil as he read them. Tasmanian Manganese Products\
instructs us to open credit.... The phone on his desk began to buzz.\
\
\'93James this is your mother. Come right up; something terrible has\
happened.\'94\
\
\'93But I dont know if I can get away....\'94\
\
She had already cut off. Merivale felt himself turning pale. \'93Let me\
speak to Mr. Aspinwall please.... Mr. Aspinwall this is Merivale.... My\
mother\'92s been taken suddenly ill. I\'92m afraid it may be a stroke. I\'92d\
like to run up there for an hour. I\'92ll be back in time to get a cable\
off on that Tasmanian matter.\'94\
\
\'93All right.... I\'92m very sorry Merivale.\'94\
\
He grabbed his hat and coat, forgetting his muffler, and streaked out\
of the bank and along the street to the subway.\
\
He burst into the apartment breathless, snapping his fingers from\
nervousness. Mrs. Merivale grayfaced met him in the hall.\
\
\'93My dear I thought you\'92d been taken ill.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not that ... it\'92s about Maisie.\'94\
\
\'93She hasnt met with an accid...?\'94\
\
\'93Come in here,\'94 interrupted Mrs. Merivale. In the parlor sat a little\
roundfaced woman in a round mink hat and a long mink coat. \'93My dear\
this girl says she\'92s Mrs. Jack Cunningham and she\'92s got a marriage\
certificate to prove it.\'94\
\
\'93Good Heavens, is that true?\'94\
\
The girl nodded in a melancholy way.\
\
\'93And the invitations are out. Since his last wire Maisie\'92s been\
ordering her trousseau.\'94\
\
The girl unfolded a large certificate ornamented with pansies and\
cupids and handed it to James.\
\
\'93It might be forged.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not forged,\'94 said the girl sweetly.\
\
\'93John C. Cunningham, 21 ... Jessie Lincoln, 18,\'94 he read aloud....\
\'93I\'92ll smash his face for that, the blackguard. That\'92s certainly his\
signature, I\'92ve seen it at the bank.... The blackguard.\'94\
\
\'93Now James, don\'92t be hasty.\'94\
\
\'93I thought it would be better this way than after the ceremony,\'94 put in\
the girl in her little sugar voice. \'93I wouldnt have Jack commit bigamy\
for anything in the world.\'94\
\
\'93Where\'92s Maisie?\'94\
\
\'93The poor darling is prostrated in her room.\'94\
\
Merivale\'92s face was crimson. The sweat itched under his collar. \'93Now\
dearest\'94 Mrs. Merivale kept saying, \'93you must promise me not to do\
anything rash.\'94\
\
\'93Yes Maisie\'92s reputation must be protected at all costs.\'94\
\
\'93My dear I think the best thing to do is to get him up here and\
confront him with this ... with this ... lady.... Would you agree to\
that Mrs. Cunningham?\'94\
\
\'93Oh dear.... Yes I suppose so.\'94\
\
\'93Wait a minute,\'94 shouted Merivale and strode down the hall to the\
telephone. \'93Rector 12305.... Hello. I want to speak to Mr. Jack\
Cunningham please.... Hello. Is this Mr. Cunningham\'92s office? Mr. James\
Merivale speaking.... Out of town.... And when will he be back?...\
Hum.\'94 He strode back along the hall. \'93The damn scoundrel\'92s out of town.\'94\
\
\'93All the years I\'92ve known him,\'94 said the little lady in the round hat,\
\'93that has always been where he was.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Outside the broad office windows the night is gray and foggy. Here\
and there a few lights make up dim horizontals and perpendiculars of\
asterisks. Phineas Blackhead sits at his desk tipping far back in the\
small leather armchair. In his hand protecting his fingers by a large\
silk handkerchief, he holds a glass of hot water and bicarbonate of\
soda. Densch bald and round as a billiardball sits in the deep armchair\
playing with his tortoiseshell spectacles. Everything is quiet except\
for an occasional rattling and snapping of the steampipes.\
\
\'93Densch you must forgive me.... You know I rarely permit myself an\
observation concerning other people\'92s business,\'94 Blackhead is saying\
slowly between sips; then suddenly he sits up in his chair. \'93It\'92s a\
damn fool proposition, Densch, by God it is ... by the Living Jingo\
it\'92s ridiculous.\'94\
\
\'93I dont like dirtying my hands any more than you do.... Baldwin\'92s a\
good fellow. I think we\'92re safe in backing him a little.\'94\
\
\'93What the hell\'92s an import and export firm got to do in politics? If\
any of those guys wants a handout let him come up here and get it.\
Our business is the price of beans ... and its goddam low. If any of\
you puling lawyers could restore the balance of the exchanges I\'92d be\
willing to do anything in the world.... They\'92re crooks every last\
goddam one of em ... by the Living Jingo they\'92re crooks.\'94 His face\
flushes purple, he sits upright in his chair banging with his fist on\
the corner of the desk. \'93Now you\'92re getting me all excited.... Bad for\
my stomach, bad for my heart.\'94 Phineas Blackhead belches portentously\
and takes a great gulp out of the glass of bicarbonate of soda. Then\
he leans back in his chair again letting his heavy lids half cover his\
eyes.\
\
\'93Well old man,\'94 says Mr. Densch in a tired voice, \'93it may have been a\
bad thing to do, but I\'92ve promised to support the reform candidate.\
That\'92s a purely private matter in no way involving the firm.\'94\
\
\'93Like hell it dont.... How about McNiel and his gang?... They\'92ve always\
treated us all right and all we\'92ve ever done for em\'92s a couple of cases\
of Scotch and a few cigars now and then.... Now we have these reformers\
throw the whole city government into a turmoil.... By the Living\
Jingo ...\'94\
\
Densch gets to his feet. \'93My dear Blackhead I consider it my duty as\
a citizen to help in cleaning up the filthy conditions of bribery,\
corruption and intrigue that exist in the city government ... I\
consider it my duty as a citizen ...\'94 He starts walking to the door,\
his round belly stuck proudly out in front of him.\
\
\'93Well allow me to say Densch that I think its a damn fool proposition,\'94\
Blackhead shouts after him. When his partner has gone he lies back a\
second with his eyes closed. His face takes on the mottled color of\
ashes, his big fleshy frame is shrinking like a deflating balloon. At\
length he gets to his feet with a groan. Then he takes his hat and\
coat and walks out of the office with a slow heavy step. The hall is\
empty and dimly lit. He has to wait a long while for the elevator. The\
thought of holdup men sneaking through the empty building suddenly\
makes him catch his breath. He is afraid to look behind him, like a\
child in the dark. At last the elevator shoots up.\
\
\'93Wilmer,\'94 he says to the night watchman who runs it, \'93there ought to be\
more light in these halls at night.... During this crime wave I should\
think you ought to keep the building brightly lit.\'94\
\
\'93Yassir maybe you\'92re right sir ... but there cant nobody get in unless\
I sees em first.\'94\
\
\'93You might be overpowered by a gang Wilmer.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to see em try it.\'94\
\
\'93I guess you are right ... mere question of nerve.\'94\
\
Cynthia is sitting in the Packard reading a book. \'93Well dear did you\
think I was never coming.\'94\
\
\'93I almost finished my book, dad.\'94\
\
\'93All right Butler ... up town as fast as you can. We\'92re late for\
dinner.\'94\
\
As the limousine whirs up Lafayette Street, Blackhead turns to his\
daughter. \'93If you ever hear a man talking about his duty as a citizen,\
by the Living Jingo dont trust him.... He\'92s up to some kind of monkey\
business nine times out of ten. You dont know what a relief it is to me\
that you and Joe are comfortably settled in life.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter dad? Did you have a hard day at the office?\'94 \'93There\
are no markets, there isnt a market in the goddam world that isnt shot\
to blazes.... I tell you Cynthia it\'92s nip and tuck. There\'92s no telling\
what might happen.... Look, before I forget it could you be at the\
bank uptown at twelve tomorrow?... I\'92m sending Hudgins up with certain\
securities, personal you understand, I want to put in your safe deposit\
box.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s jammed full already dad.\'94\
\
\'93That box at the Astor Trust is in your name isnt it?\'94\
\
\'93Jointly in mine and Joe\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93Well you take a new box at the Fifth Avenue Bank in your own name....\
I\'92ll have the stuff get there at noon sharp.... And remember what I\
tell you Cynthia, if you ever hear a business associate talking about\
civic virtue, look lively.\'94\
\
They are crossing Fourteenth. Father and daughter look out through the\
glass at the windbitten faces of people waiting to cross the street.\
\
Jimmy Herf yawned and scraped back his chair. The nickel glints of the\
typewriter hurt his eyes. The tips of his fingers were sore. He pushed\
open the sliding doors a little and peeped into the cold bedroom. He\
could barely make out Ellie asleep in the bed in the alcove. At the\
far end of the room was the baby\'92s crib. There was a faint milkish\
sour smell of babyclothes. He pushed the doors to again and began\
to undress. If we only had more space, he was muttering; we live\
cramped in our squirrelcage.... He pulled the dusty cashmere off the\
couch and yanked his pyjamas out from under the pillow. Space space\
cleanness quiet; the words were gesticulating in his mind as if he were\
addressing a vast auditorium.\
\
He turned out the light, opened a crack of the window and dropped\
wooden with sleep into bed. Immediately he was writing a letter on a\
linotype. Now I lay me down to sleep ... mother of the great white\
twilight. The arm of the linotype was a woman\'92s hand in a long white\
glove. Through the clanking from behind amber foots Ellie\'92s voice Dont,\
dont, dont, you\'92re hurting me so.... Mr. Herf, says a man in overalls,\
you\'92re hurting the machine and we wont be able to get out the bullgod\
edition thank dog. The linotype was a gulping mouth with nickelbright\
rows of teeth, gulped, crunched. He woke up sitting up in bed. He was\
cold, his teeth were chattering. He pulled the covers about him and\
settled to sleep again. The next time he woke up it was daylight. He\
was warm and happy. Snowflakes were dancing, hesitating, spinning,\
outside the tall window.\
\
\'93Hello Jimps,\'94 said Ellie coming towards him with a tray.\
\
\'93Why have I died and gone to heaven or something?\'94\
\
\'93No it\'92s Sunday morning.... I thought you needed a little luxury.... I\
made some corn muffins.\'94\
\
\'93Oh you\'92re marvelous Ellie.... Wait a minute I must jump up and wash my\
teeth.\'94 He came back with his face washed, wearing his bathrobe. Her\
mouth winced under his kiss. \'93And it\'92s only eleven o\'92clock. I\'92ve gained\
an hour on my day off.... Wont you have some coffee too?\'94\
\
\'93In a minute.... Look here Jimps I\'92ve got something I want to talk\
about. Look dont you think we ought to get another place now that\
you\'92re working nights again all the time?\'94\
\
\'93You mean move?\'94\
\
\'93No. I was thinking if you could get another room to sleep in somewhere\
round, then nobody\'92d ever disturb you in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93But Ellie we\'92d never see each other.... We hardly ever see each other\
as it is.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s terrible ... but what can we do when our office-hours are so\
different?\'94\
\
Martin\'92s crying came in a gust from the other room. Jimmy sat on the\
edge of the bed with the empty coffeecup on his knees looking at his\
bare feet. \'93Just as you like,\'94 he said dully. An impulse to grab her\
hands to crush her to him until he hurt her went up through him like a\
rocket and died. She picked up the coffeethings and swished away. His\
lips knew her lips, his arms knew the twining of her arms, he knew the\
deep woods of her hair, he loved her. He sat for a long time looking at\
his feet, lanky reddish feet with swollen blue veins, shoebound toes\
twisted by stairs and pavements. On each little toe there was a corn.\
He found his eyes filling with pitying tears. The baby had stopped\
crying. Jimmy went into the bathroom and started the water running in\
the tub.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93It was that other feller you had Anna. He got you to thinkin you didnt\
give a damn.... He made you a fatalist.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s at?\'94\
\
\'93Somebody who thinks there\'92s no use strugglin, somebody who dont\
believe in human progress.\'94\
\
\'93Do you think Bouy was like that?\'94\
\
\'93He was a scab anyway ... None o these Southerners are\
classconscious.... Didn\'92t he make you stop payin your union dues?\'94\
\
\'93I was sick o workin a sewin machine.\'94\
\
\'93But you could be a handworker, do fancy work and make good money.\
You\'92re not one o that kind, you\'92re one of us.... I\'92ll get you back in\
good standin an you kin get a good job again.... God I\'92d never have let\
you work in a dancehall the way he did. Anna it hurt me terrible to see\
a Jewish girl goin round with a feller like that.\'94\
\
\'93Well he\'92s gone an I aint got no job.\'94\
\
\'93Fellers like that are the greatest enemies of the workers.... They\
dont think of nobody but themselves.\'94\
\
They are walking slowly up Second Avenue through a foggy evening. He\
is a rustyhaired thinfaced young Jew with sunken cheeks and livid pale\
skin. He has the bandy legs of a garment worker. Anna\'92s shoes are too\
small for her. She has deep rings under her eyes. The fog is full of\
strolling groups talking Yiddish, overaccented East Side English,\
Russian. Warm rifts of light from delicatessen stores and softdrink\
stands mark off the glistening pavement.\
\
\'93If I didn\'92t feel so tired all the time,\'94 mutters Anna.\
\
\'93Let\'92s stop here an have a drink.... You take a glass o buttermilk\
Anna, make ye feel good.\'94\
\
\'93I aint got the taste for it Elmer. I\'92ll take a chocolate soda.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92ll juss make ye feel sick, but go ahead if you wanter.\'94 She sat\
on the slender nickelbound stool. He stood beside her. She let herself\
lean back a little against him. \'93The trouble with the workers is\'94 ...\
He was talking in a low impersonal voice. \'93The trouble with the workers\
is we dont know nothin, we dont know how to eat, we dont know how to\
live, we dont know how to protect our rights.... Jez Anna I want to\
make you think of things like that. Cant you see we\'92re in the middle\
of a battle just like in the war?\'94 With the long sticky spoon Anna was\
fishing bits of icecream out of the thick foamy liquid in her glass.\
\
George Baldwin looked at himself in the mirror as he washed his hands\
in the little washroom behind his office. His hair that still grew\
densely down to a point on his forehead was almost white. There was\
a deep line at each corner of his mouth and across his chin. Under\
his bright gimleteyes the skin was sagging and granulated. When he\
had wiped his hands slowly and meticulously he took a little box of\
strychnine pills from the upper pocket of his vest, swallowed one, and\
feeling the anticipated stimulus tingle through him went back into his\
office. A longnecked officeboy was fidgeting beside his desk with a\
card in his hand.\
\
\'93A lady wants to speak to you sir.\'94\
\
\'93Has she an appointment? Ask Miss Ranke.... Wait a minute. Show the\
lady right through into this office.\'94 The card read Nellie Linihan\
McNiel. She was expensively dressed with a lot of lace in the opening\
of her big fur coat. Round her neck she had a lorgnette on an amethyst\
chain.\
\
\'93Gus asked me to come to see you,\'94 she said as he motioned her into a\
chair beside the desk.\
\
\'93What can I do for you?\'94 His heart for some reason was pounding hard.\
\
She looked at him a moment through her lorgnette. \'93George you stand it\
better than Gus does.\'94\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93Oh all this.... I\'92m trying to get Gus to go away with me for a rest\
abroad ... Marianbad or something like that ... but he says he\'92s in too\
deep to pull up his stakes.\'94\
\
\'93I guess that\'92s true of all of us,\'94 said Baldwin with a cold smile.\
\
They were silent a minute, then Nellie McNiel got to her feet. \'93Look\
here George, Gus is awfully cut up about this.... You know he likes to\
stand by his friends and have his friends stand by him.\'94\
\
\'93Nobody can say that I haven\'92t stood by him.... It\'92s simply this, I\'92m\
not a politician, and as, probably foolishly, I\'92ve allowed myself to be\
nominated for office, I have to run on a nonpartisan basis.\'94\
\
\'93George that\'92s only half the story and you know it.\'94\
\
\'93Tell him that I\'92ve always been and always shall be a good friend of\
his.... He knows that perfectly well. In this particular campaign I\
have pledged myself to oppose certain elements with which Gus has let\
himself get involved.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a fine talker George Baldwin and you always were.\'94\
\
Baldwin flushed. They stood stiff side by side at the office door. His\
hand lay still on the doorknob as if paralyzed. From the outer offices\
came the sound of typewriters and voices. From outside came the long\
continuous tapping of riveters at work on a new building.\
\
\'93I hope your family\'92s all well,\'94 he said at length with an effort.\
\
\'93Oh yes they are all well thanks ... Goodby.\'94 She had gone.\
\
Baldwin stood for a moment looking out of the window at the gray\
blackwindowed building opposite. Silly to let things agitate him so.\
Need of relaxation. He got his hat and coat from their hook behind the\
washroom door and went out. \'93Jonas,\'94 he said to a man with a round\
bald head shaped like a cantaloupe who sat poring over papers in the\
highceilinged library that was the central hall of the lawoffice,\
\'93bring everything up that\'92s on my desk.... I\'92ll go over it uptown\
tonight.\'94\
\
\'93All right sir.\'94\
\
When he got out on Broadway he felt like a small boy playing hooky. It\
was a sparkling winter afternoon with hurrying rifts of sun and cloud.\
He jumped into a taxi. Going uptown he lay back in the seat dozing. At\
Fortysecond Street he woke up. Everything was a confusion of bright\
intersecting planes of color, faces, legs, shop windows, trolleycars,\
automobiles. He sat up with his gloved hands on his knees, fizzling\
with excitement. Outside of Nevada\'92s apartmenthouse he paid the taxi.\
The driver was a negro and showed an ivory mouthful of teeth when he\
got a fiftycent tip. Neither elevator was there so Baldwin ran lightly\
up the stairs, half wondering at himself. He knocked on Nevada\'92s door.\
No answer. He knocked again. She opened it cautiously. He could see her\
curly towhead. He brushed into the room before she could stop him. All\
she had on was a kimono over a pink chemise.\
\
\'93My God,\'94 she said, \'93I thought you were the waiter.\'94\
\
He grabbed her and kissed her. \'93I dont know why but I feel like a\
threeyear old.\'94\
\
\'93You look like you was crazy with the heat.... I dont like you to come\
over without telephoning, you know that.\'94\
\
\'93You dont mind just this once I forgot.\'94\
\
Baldwin caught sight of something on the settee; he found himself\
staring at a pair of darkblue trousers neatly folded.\
\
\'93I was feeling awfully fagged down at the office Nevada. I thought I\'92d\
come up to talk to you to cheer myself up a bit.\'94\
\
\'93I was just practicing some dancing with the phonograph.\'94\
\
\'93Yes very interesting....\'94 He began to walk springily up and down.\
\'93Now look here Nevada.... We\'92ve got to have a talk. I dont care who it\
is you\'92ve got in your bedroom.\'94 She looked suddenly in his face and\
sat down on the settee beside the trousers. \'93In fact I\'92ve known for\
some time that you and Tony Hunter were carrying on.\'94 She compressed\
her lips and crossed her legs. \'93In fact all this stuff and nonsense\
about his having to go to a psychoanalyst at twentyfive dollars an\
hour amused me enormously.... But just this minute I\'92ve decided I had\
enough. Quite enough.\'94\
\
\'93George you\'92re crazy,\'94 she stammered and then suddenly she began to\
giggle.\
\
\'93I tell you what I\'92ll do,\'94 went on Baldwin in a clear legal voice,\
\'93I\'92ll send you a check for five hundred, because you\'92re a nice girl and\
I like you. The apartment\'92s paid till the first of the month. Does that\
suit you? And please never communicate with me in any way.\'94\
\
She was rolling on the settee giggling helplessly beside the neatly\
folded pair of darkblue trousers. Baldwin waved his hat and gloves at\
her and left closing the door very gently behind him. Good riddance, he\
said to himself as he closed the door carefully behind him.\
\
Down in the street again he began to walk briskly uptown. He felt\
excited and talkative. He wondered who he could go to see. Telling over\
the names of his friends made him depressed. He began to feel lonely,\
deserted. He wanted to be talking to a woman, making her sorry for the\
barrenness of his life. He went into a cigarstore and began looking\
through the phonebook. There was a faint flutter in him when he found\
the H\'92s. At last he found the name Herf, Helena Oglethorpe.\
\
Nevada Jones sat a long while on the settee giggling hysterically.\
At length Tony Hunter came in in his shirt and drawers with his bow\
necktie perfectly tied.\
\
\'93Has he gone?\'94\
\
\'93Gone? sure he\'92s gone, gone for good,\'94 she shrieked. \'93He saw your damn\
pants.\'94\
\
He let himself drop on a chair. \'93O God if I\'92m not the unluckiest fellow\
in the world.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94 she sat spluttering with laughter with the tears running down\
her face.\
\
\'93Nothing goes right. That means it\'92s all off about the matinees.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s back to three a day for little Nevada.... I dont give a damn....\
I never did like bein a kept woman.\'94\
\
\'93But you\'92re not thinking of my career.... Women are so selfish. If you\
hadn\'92t led me on....\'94\
\
\'93Shut up you little fool. Dont you think I dont know all about you?\'94\
She got to her feet with the kimono pulled tight about her.\
\
\'93God all I needed was a chance to show what I could do, and now I\'92ll\
never get it,\'94 Tony was groaning.\
\
\'93Sure you will if you do what I tell you. I set out to make a man\
of you kiddo and I\'92m goin to do it.... We\'92ll get up an act. Old\
Hirshbein\'92ll give us a chance, he used to be kinder smitten.... Come on\
now, I\'92ll punch you in the jaw if you dont. Let\'92s start thinkin up....\
We\'92ll come in with a dance number see ... then you\'92ll pretend to want\
to pick me up.... I\'92ll be waitin for a streetcar ... see ... and you\'92ll\
say Hello Girlie an I\'92ll call Officer.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Is that all right for length sir,\'94 asked the fitter busily making\
marks on the trousers with a piece of chalk.\
\
James Merivale looked down at the fitter\'92s little greenish wizened bald\
head and at the brown trousers flowing amply about his feet. \'93A little\
shorter.... I think it looks a little old to have trousers too long.\'94\
\
\'93Why hello Merivale I didn\'92t know you bought your clothes at Brooks\'92\
too. Gee I\'92m glad to see you.\'94\
\
Merivale\'92s blood stood still. He found himself looking straight in the\
blue alcoholic eyes of Jack Cunningham. He bit his lip and tried to\
stare at him coldly without speaking.\
\
\'93God Almighty, do you know what we\'92ve done?\'94 cried out Cunningham.\
\'93We\'92ve bought the same suit of clothes.... I tell you it\'92s identically\
the same.\'94\
\
Merivale was looking in bewilderment from Cunningham\'92s brown trousers\
to his own, the same color, the same tiny stripe of red and faint\
mottling of green.\
\
\'93Good God man two future brothersinlaw cant wear the same suit.\
People\'92ll think it\'92s a uniform.... It\'92s ridiculous.\'94\
\
\'93Well what are we going to do about it?\'94 Merivale found himself saying\
in a grumbling tone.\
\
\'93We have to toss up and see who gets it that\'92s all.... Will you lend me\
a quarter please?\'94 Cunningham turned to his salesman. \'93All right....\
One toss, you yell.\'94\
\
\'93Heads,\'94 said Merivale mechanically.\
\
\'93The brown suit is yours.... Now I\'92ve got to choose another ... God I\'92m\
glad we met when we did. Look,\'94 he shouted out through the curtains of\
the booth, \'93why dont you have dinner with me tonight at the Salmagundi\
Club?... I\'92m going to be dining with the only man in the world who\'92s\
crazier about hydroplanes than I am.... It\'92s old man Perkins, you\
know him, he\'92s one of the vicepresidents of your bank.... And look\
when you see Maisie tell her I\'92m coming up to see her tomorrow. An\
extraordinary series of events has kept me from communicating with her\
... a most unfortunate series of events that took all my time up to\
this moment.... We\'92ll talk about it later.\'94\
\
Merivale cleared his throat. \'93Very well,\'94 he said dryly.\
\
\'93All right sir,\'94 said the fitter giving Merivale a last tap on the\
buttocks. He went back into the booth to dress.\
\
\'93All right old thing,\'94 shouted Cunningham, \'93I\'92ve got to go pick out\
another suit ... I\'92ll expect you at seven. I\'92ll have a Jack Rose\
waiting for you.\'94\
\
Merivale\'92s hands were trembling as he fastened his belt. Perkins,\
Jack Cunningham, the damn blackguard, hydroplanes, Jack Cunningham\
Salmagundi Perkins. He went to a phone booth in a corner of the store\
and called up his mother. \'93Hello Mother, I\'92m afraid I wont be up to\
dinner.... I\'92m dining with Randolph Perkins at the Salmagundi Club....\
Yes it is very pleasant.... Oh well he and I have always been fairly\
good friends.... Oh yes it\'92s essential to stand in with the men higher\
up. And I\'92ve seen Jack Cunningham. I put it up to him straight from\
the shoulder man to man and he was very much embarrassed. He promised\
a full explanation within twentyfour hours.... No I kept my temper\
very well. I felt I owed it to Maisie. I tell you I think the man\'92s a\
blackguard but until there\'92s proof.... Well good night dear, in case\
I\'92m late. Oh no please dont wait up. Tell Maisie not to worry I\'92ll be\
able to give her the fullest details. Good night mother.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
They sat at a small table in the back of a dimly lighted tearoom. The\
shade on the lamp cut off the upper parts of their faces. Ellen had\
on a dress of bright peacock blue and a small blue hat with a piece\
of green in it. Ruth Prynne\'92s face had a sagging tired look under the\
street makeup.\
\
\'93Elaine, you\'92ve just got to come,\'94 she was saying in a whiny voice.\
\'93Cassie\'92ll be there and Oglethorpe and all the old gang.... After all\
now that you\'92re making such a success of editorial work it\'92s no reason\
for completely abandoning your old friends is it? You dont know how\
much we talk and wonder about you.\'94\
\
\'93No but Ruth it\'92s just that I\'92m getting to hate large parties. I guess\
I must be getting old. All right I\'92ll come for a little while.\'94\
\
Ruth put down the sandwich she was nibbling at and reached for Ellen\'92s\
hand and patted it. \'93That\'92s the little trouper.... Of course I knew you\
were coming all along.\'94\
\
\'93But Ruth you never told me what happened to that traveling repertory\
company last summer....\'94\
\
\'93O my God,\'94 burst out Ruth. \'93That was terrible. Of course it was a\
scream, a perfect scream. Well the first thing that happened was that\
Isabel Clyde\'92s husband Ralph Nolton who was managing the company was a\
dipsomaniac ... and then the lovely Isabel wouldn\'92t let anybody on the\
stage who didn\'92t act like a dummy for fear the rubes wouldnt know who\
the star was.... Oh I cant tell about it any more.... It isnt funny to\
me any more, it\'92s just horrible.... Oh Elaine I\'92m so discouraged. My\
dear I\'92m getting old.\'94 She suddenly burst out crying.\
\
\'93Oh Ruth please dont,\'94 said Ellen in a little rasping voice. She\
laughed. \'93After all we\'92re none of us getting any younger are we?\'94\
\
\'93Dear you dont understand ... You never will understand.\'94\
\
They sat a long while without saying anything, scraps of lowvoiced\
conversation came to them from other corners of the dim tearoom. The\
palehaired waitress brought them two orders of fruit salad.\
\
\'93My it must be getting late,\'94 said Ruth eventually.\
\
\'93It\'92s only half past eight.... We dont want to get to this party too\
soon.\'94\
\
\'93By the way ... how\'92s Jimmy Herf. I havent seen him for ages.\'94\
\
\'93Jimps is fine.... He\'92s terribly sick of newspaper work. I do wish he\
could get something he really enjoyed doing.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92ll always be a restless sort of person. Oh Elaine I was so happy\
when I heard about your being married.... I acted like a damn fool.\
I cried and cried.... And now with Martin and everything you must be\
terribly happy.\'94\
\
\'93Oh we get along all right.... Martin\'92s picking up, New York seems\
to agree with him. He was so quiet and fat for a long while we were\
terribly afraid we\'92d produced an imbecile. Do you know Ruth I don\'92t\
think I\'92d ever have another baby.... I was so horribly afraid he\'92d turn\
out deformed or something.... It makes me sick to think of it.\'94\
\
\'93Oh but it must be wonderful though.\'94\
\
They rang a bell under a small brass placque that read: Hester Voorhees\
INTERPRETATION OF THE DANCE. They went up three flights of creaky\
freshvarnished stairs. At the door open into a room full of people they\
met Cassandra Wilkins in a Greek tunic with a wreath of satin rosebuds\
round her head and a gilt wooden panpipe in her hand.\
\
\'93Oh you darlings,\'94 she cried and threw her arms round them both at\
once. \'93Hester said you wouldnt come but I just knew you would.... Come\
wight in and take off your things, we\'92re beginning with a few classic\
wythms.\'94 They followed her through a long candlelit incensesmelling\
room full of men and women in dangly costumes.\
\
\'93But my dear you didn\'92t tell us it was going to be a costume party.\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes cant you see evewything\'92s Gweek, absolutely Gweek.... Here\'92s\
Hester.... Here they are darling.... Hester you know Wuth ... and this\
is Elaine Oglethorpe.\'94\
\
\'93I call myself Mrs. Herf now, Cassie.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I beg your pardon, it\'92s so hard to keep twack.... They\'92re just in\
time.... Hester\'92s going to dance an owiental dance called Wythms from\
the Awabian Nights.... Oh it\'92s too beautiful.\'94\
\
When Ellen came out of the bedroom where she had left her wraps a tall\
figure in Egyptian headdress with crooked rusty eyebrows accosted her.\
\'93Allow me to salute Helena Herf, distinguished editress of _Manners_,\
the journal that brings the Ritz to the humblest fireside ... isnt that\
true?\'94\
\
\'93Jojo you\'92re a horrible tease.... I\'92m awfully glad to see you.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go and sit in a corner and talk, oh only woman I have ever\
loved...\'94\
\
\'93Yes do let\'92s ... I dont like it here much.\'94\
\
\'93And my dear, have you heard about Tony Hunter\'92s being straightened\
out by a psychoanalyst and now he\'92s all sublimated and has gone on the\
vaudeville stage with a woman named California Jones.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d better watch out Jojo.\'94\
\
They sat down on a couch in a recess between the dormer windows. Out of\
the corner of her eye she could see a girl dancing in green silk veils.\
The phonograph was playing the Cesar Frank symphony.\
\
\'93We mustnt miss Cassie\'92s daunce. The poor girl would be dreadfully\
offended.\'94\
\
\'93Jojo tell me about yourself, how have you been?\'94\
\
He shook his head and made a broad gesture with his draped arm. \'93Ah let\
us sit upon the ground and tell sad stories of the deaths of kings.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Jojo I\'92m sick of this sort of thing.... It\'92s all so silly and\
dowdy.... I wish I hadnt let them make me take my hat off.\'94\
\
\'93That was so that I should look upon the forbidden forests of your\
hair.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Jojo do be sensible.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s your husband, Elaine or rathah Helenah?\'94\
\
\'93Oh he\'92s all right.\'94\
\
\'93You dont sound terribly enthusiastic.\'94\
\
\'93Martin\'92s fine though. He\'92s got black hair and brown eyes and his\
cheeks are getting to be pink. Really he\'92s awfully cute.\'94\
\
\'93My deah, spare me this exhibition of maternal bliss.... You\'92ll be\
telling me next you walked in a baby parade.\'94\
\
She laughed. \'93Jojo it\'92s lots of fun to see you again.\'94\
\
\'93I havent finished my catechism yet deah.... I saw you in the oval\
diningroom the other day with a very distinguished looking man with\
sharp features and gray hair.\'94\
\
\'93That must have been George Baldwin. Why you knew him in the old days.\'94\
\
\'93Of course of course. How he has changed. A much more interesting\
looking man than he used to be I must say.... A very strange place\
for the wife of a bolshevik pacifist and I. W. W. agitator to be seen\
taking lunch, I must say.\'94\
\
\'93Jimps isnt exactly that. I kind of wish he were....\'94 She wrinkled up\
her nose. \'93I\'92m a little fed up too with all that sort of thing.\'94\
\
\'93I suspected it my dear.\'94 Cassie was flitting selfconsciously by.\
\
\'93Oh do come and help me.... Jojo\'92s teasing me terribly.\'94\
\
\'93Well I\'92ll twy to sit down just for a second, I\'92m going to dance\
next.... Mr. Oglethorpe\'92s going to wead his twanslation of the songs of\
Bilitis for me to dance to.\'94\
\
Ellen looked from one to the other; Oglethorpe crooked his eyebrows and\
nodded.\
\
Then Ellen sat alone for a long while looking at the dancing and the\
chittering crowded room through a dim haze of boredom.\
\
The record on the phonograph was Turkish. Hester Voorhees, a skinny\
woman with a mop of hennaed hair cut short at the level of her ears,\
came out holding a pot of drawling incense out in front of her preceded\
by two young men who unrolled a carpet as she came. She wore silk\
bloomers and a clinking metal girdle and brassi\'e8res. Everybody was\
clapping and saying, \'93How wonderful, how marvelous,\'94 when from another\
room came three tearing shrieks of a woman. Everybody jumped to his\
feet. A stout man in a derby hat appeared in the doorway. \'93All right\
little goils, right through into the back room. Men stay here.\'94\
\
\'93Who are you anyway?\'94\
\
\'93Never mind who I am, you do as I say.\'94 The man\'92s face was red as a\
beet under the derby hat.\
\
\'93It\'92s a detective.\'94 \'93It\'92s outrageous. Let him show his badge.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a holdup.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a raid.\'94\
\
The room had filled suddenly with detectives. They stood in front of\
the windows. A man in a checked cap with a face knobbed like a squash\
stood in front of the fireplace. They were pushing the women roughly\
into the back room. The men were herded in a little group near the\
door; detectives were taking their names. Ellen still sat on the couch.\
\'93... complaint phoned to headquarters,\'94 she heard somebody say. Then\
she noticed that there was a phone on the little table beside the couch\
where she sat. She picked it up and whispered softly for a number.\
\
\'93Hello is this the district attorney\'92s office?... I want to speak to\
Mr. Baldwin please.... George.... It\'92s lucky I knew where you were.\
Is the district attorney there? That\'92s fine ... no you tell him about\
it. There has been a horrible mistake. I\'92m at Hester Voorhees\'92; you\
know she has a dancing studio. She was presenting some dances to some\
friends and through some mistake the police are raiding the place ...\'94\
\
The man in the derby was standing over her. \'93All right phoning wont do\
no good.... Go \'92long in the other room.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got the district attorney\'92s office on the wire. You speak to\
him.... Hello is this Mr. Winthrop?... Yes O ... How do you do?\
Will you please speak to this man?\'94 She handed the telephone to the\
detective and walked out into the center of the room. My I wish I hadnt\
taken my hat off, she was thinking.\
\
From the other room came a sound of sobbing and Hester Voorhees\'92 stagy\
voice shrieking, \'93It\'92s a horrible mistake.... I wont be insulted like\
this.\'94\
\
The detective put down the telephone. He came over to Ellen. \'93I want to\
apologize miss.... We acted on insufficient information. I\'92ll withdraw\
my men immediately.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d better apologize to Mrs. Voorhees.... It\'92s her studio.\'94\
\
\'93Well ladies and gents,\'94 the detective began in a loud cheerful voice,\
\'93we\'92ve made a little mistake and we\'92re very sorry.... Accidents will\
happen ...\'94\
\
Ellen slipped into the side room to get her hat and coat. She stood\
some time before the mirror powdering her nose. When she went out\
into the studio again everybody was talking at once. Men and women\
stood round with sheets and bathrobes draped over their scanty\
dancingclothes. The detectives had melted away as suddenly as they\
came. Oglethorpe was talking in loud impassioned tones in the middle of\
a group of young men.\
\
\'93The scoundrels to attack women,\'94 he was shouting, red in the face,\
waving his headdress in one hand. \'93Fortunately I was able to control\
myself or I might have committed an act that I should have regretted to\
my dying day.... It was only with the greatest selfcontrol...\'94\
\
Ellen managed to slip out, ran down the stairs and out into drizzly\
streets. She hailed a taxi and went home. When she had got her things\
off she called up George Baldwin at his house. \'93Hello George, I\'92m\
terribly sorry I had to trouble you and Mr. Winthrop. Well if you hadnt\
happened to say at lunch you\'92d be there all the evening they probably\
would be just piling us out of the black maria at the Jefferson Market\
Court.... Of course it was funny. I\'92ll tell you about it sometime, but\
I\'92m so sick of all that stuff.... Oh just everything like that \'e6sthetic\
dancing and literature and radicalism and psychoanalysis.... Just an\
overdose I guess.... Yes I guess that\'92s it George.... I guess I\'92m\
growing up.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The night was one great chunk of black grinding cold. The smell of\
the presses still in his nose, the chirrup of typewriters still in\
his ears, Jimmy Herf stood in City Hall Square with his hands in his\
pockets watching ragged men with caps and earsflaps pulled down over\
faces and necks the color of raw steak shovel snow. Old and young their\
faces were the same color, their clothes were the same color. A razor\
wind cut his ears and made his forehead ache between the eyes.\
\
\'93Hello Herf, think you\'92ll take the job?\'94 said a milkfaced young man\
who came up to him breezily and pointed to the pile of snow. \'93Why not,\
Dan. I dont know why it wouldnt be better than spending all your life\
rooting into other people\'92s affairs until you\'92re nothing but a goddam\
traveling dictograph.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92d be a fine job in summer all right.... Taking the West Side?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to walk up.... I\'92ve got the heebyjeebies tonight.\'94\
\
\'93Jez man you\'92ll freeze to death.\'94\
\
\'93I dont care if I do.... You get so you dont have any private life,\
you\'92re just an automatic writing machine.\'94\
\
\'93Well I wish I could get rid of a little of my private life.... Well\
goodnight. I hope you find some private life Jimmy.\'94\
\
Laughing, Jimmy Herf turned his back on the snow-shovelers and started\
walking up Broadway, leaning into the wind with his chin buried in his\
coatcollar. At Houston Street he looked at his watch. Five o\'92clock.\
Gosh he was late today. Wouldnt be a place in the world where he could\
get a drink. He whimpered to himself at the thought of the icy blocks\
he still had to walk before he could get to his room. Now and then he\
stopped to pat some life into his numb ears. At last he got back to\
his room, lit the gasstove and hung over it tingling. His room was a\
small square bleak room on the south side of Washington Square. Its\
only furnishings were a bed, a chair, a table piled with books, and the\
gasstove. When he had begun to be a little less cold he reached under\
the bed for a basketcovered bottle of rum. He put some water to heat in\
a tin cup on the gasstove and began drinking hot rum and water. Inside\
him all sorts of unnamed agonies were breaking loose. He felt like the\
man in the fairy story with an iron band round his heart. The iron band\
was breaking.\
\
He had finished the rum. Occasionally the room would start going round\
him solemnly and methodically. Suddenly he said aloud: \'93I\'92ve got to\
talk to her ... I\'92ve got to talk to her.\'94 He shoved his hat down on his\
head and pulled on his coat. Outside the cold was balmy. Six milkwagons\
in a row passed jingling.\
\
On West Twelfth two black cats were chasing each other. Everywhere was\
full of their crazy yowling. He felt that something would snap in his\
head, that he himself would scuttle off suddenly down the frozen street\
eerily caterwauling.\
\
He stood shivering in the dark passage, ringing the bell marked Herf\
again and again. Then he knocked as loud as he could. Ellen came to the\
door in a green wrapper. \'93What\'92s the matter Jimps? Havent you got a\
key?\'94 Her face was soft with sleep; there was a happy cozy suave smell\
of sleep about her. He talked through clenched teeth breathlessly.\
\
\'93Ellie I\'92ve got to talk to you.\'94\
\
\'93Are you lit, Jimps?\'94\
\
\'93Well I know what I\'92m saying.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m terribly sleepy.\'94\
\
He followed her into her bedroom. She kicked off her slippers and got\
back into bed, sat up looking at him with sleepweighted eyes.\
\
\'93Dont talk too loud on account of Martin.\'94\
\
\'93Ellie I dont know why it\'92s always so difficult for me to speak out\
about anything.... I always have to get drunk to speak out.... Look\
here do you like me any more?\'94\
\
\'93You know I\'92m awfully fond of you and always shall be.\'94\
\
\'93I mean love, you know what I mean, whatever it is ...\'94 he broke in\
harshly.\
\
\'93I guess I dont love anybody for long unless they\'92re dead.... I\'92m a\
terrible sort of person. It\'92s no use talking about it.\'94\
\
\'93I knew it. You knew I knew it. O God things are pretty rotten for me\
Ellie.\'94\
\
She sat with her knees hunched up and her hands clasped round them\
looking at him with wide eyes. \'93Are you really so crazy about me Jimps?\'94\
\
\'93Look here lets get a divorce and be done with it.\'94\
\
\'93Dont be in such a hurry, Jimps.... And there\'92s Martin. What about him?\'94\
\
\'93I can scrape up enough money for him occasionally, poor little kid.\'94\
\
\'93I make more than you do, Jimps.... You shouldnt do that yet.\'94\
\
\'93I know. I know. Dont I know it?\'94\
\
They sat looking at each other without speaking. Their eyes burned from\
looking at each other. Suddenly Jimmy wanted terribly to be asleep, not\
to remember anything, to let his head sink into blackness, as into his\
mother\'92s lap when he was a kid.\
\
\'93Well I\'92m going home.\'94 He gave a little dry laugh. \'93We didn\'92t think\
it\'92d all go pop like this, did we?\'94\
\
\'93Goodnight Jimps,\'94 she whined in the middle of a yawn. \'93But things dont\
end.... If only I weren\'92 so terribly sleepy.... Will you put out the\
light?\'94\
\
He groped his way in the dark to the door. Outside the arctic morning\
was growing gray with dawn. He hurried back to his room. He wanted to\
get into bed and be asleep before it was light.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
A long low room with long tables down the middle piled with silk and\
cr\'eape fabrics, brown, salmonpink, emeraldgreen. A smell of snipped\
thread and dress materials. All down the tables bowed heads auburn,\
blond, black, brown of girls sewing. Errandboys pushing rolling stands\
of hung dresses up and down the aisles. A bell rings and the room\
breaks out with noise and talk shrill as a birdhouse.\
\
Anna gets up and stretches out her arms. \'93My I\'92ve got a head,\'94 she says\
to the girl next her.\
\
\'93Up last night?\'94\
\
She nods.\
\
\'93Ought to quit it dearie, it\'92ll spoil your looks. A girl cant burn the\
candle at both ends like a feller can.\'94 The other girl is thin and\
blond and has a crooked nose. She puts her arm round Anna\'92s waist. \'93My\
I wish I could put on a little of your weight.\'94\
\
\'93I wish you could,\'94 says Anna. \'93Dont matter what I eat it turns to fat.\'94\
\
\'93Still you aint too fat.... You\'92re juss plump so\'92s they like to squeeze\
ye. You try wearing boyishform like I told an you\'92ll look fine.\'94\
\
\'93My boyfriend says he likes a girl to have shape.\'94\
\
On the stairs they push their way through a group of girls listening to\
a little girl with red hair who talks fast, opening her mouth wide and\
rolling her eyes. \'93... She lived just on the next block at 2230 Cameron\
Avenue an she\'92d been to the Hippodrome with some girlfriends and when\
they got home it was late an they let her go home alone, up Cameron\
Avenue, see? An the next morning when her folks began looking for her\
they found her behind a Spearmint sign in a back lot.\'94\
\
\'93Was she dead?\'94\
\
\'93Sure she was.... A negro had done somethin terrible to her and then\
he\'92d strangled her.... I felt terrible. I used to go to school with\
her. An there aint a girl on Cameron Avenue been out after dark they\'92re\
so scared.\'94\
\
\'93Sure I saw all about it in the paper last night. Imagine livin right\
on the next block.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Did you see me touch that hump back?\'94 cried Rosie as he settled down\
beside her in the taxi. \'93In the lobby of the theater?\'94 He pulled at\
the trousers that were tight over his knees. \'93That\'92s goin to give us\
luck Jake. I never seen a hump back to fail.... if you touch him on the\
hump ... Ou it makes me sick how fast these taxis go.\'94 They were thrown\
forward by the taxi\'92s sudden stop. \'93My God we almost ran over a boy.\'94\
Jake Silverman patted her knee. \'93Poor ikle kid, was it all worked up?\'94\
As they drove up to the hotel she shivered and buried her face in her\
coatcollar. When they went to the desk to get the key, the clerk said\
to Silverman, \'93There\'92s a gentleman waiting to see you sir.\'94 A thickset\
man came up to him taking a cigar out of his mouth. \'93Will you step this\
way a minute please Mr. Silverman.\'94 Rosie thought she was going to\
faint. She stood perfectly still, frozen, with her cheeks deep in the\
fur collar of her coat.\
\
They sat in two deep armchairs and whispered with their heads together.\
Step by step, she got nearer, listening. \'93Warrant ... Department of\
Justice ... using the mails to defraud ...\'94 She couldnt hear what Jake\
said in between. He kept nodding his head as if agreeing. Then suddenly\
he spoke out smoothly, smiling.\
\
\'93Well I\'92ve heard your side Mr. Rogers.... Here\'92s mine. If you arrest\
me now I shall be ruined and a great many people who have put their\
money in this enterprise will be ruined.... In a week I can liquidate\
the whole concern with a profit.... Mr. Rogers I am a man who has been\
deeply wronged through foolishness in misplacing confidence in others.\'94\
\
\'93I cant help that.... My duty is to execute the warrant.... I\'92m afraid\
I\'92ll have to search your room.... You see we have several little\
items ...\'94 The man flicked the ash off his cigar and began to read in a\
monotonous voice. \'93Jacob Silverman, alias Edward Faversham, Simeon J.\
Arbuthnot, Jack Hinkley, J. J. Gold.... Oh we\'92ve got a pretty little\
list.... We\'92ve done some very pretty work on your case, if I do say it\
what shouldnt.\'94\
\
They got to their feet. The man with the cigar jerked his head at a\
lean man in a cap who sat reading a paper on the opposite side of the\
lobby.\
\
Silverman walked over to the desk. \'93I\'92m called away on business,\'94\
he said to the clerk. \'93Will you please have my bill prepared? Mrs.\
Silverman will keep the room for a few days.\'94\
\
Rosie couldnt speak. She followed the three men into the elevator.\
\'93Sorry to have to do this maam,\'94 said the lean detective pulling at the\
visor of his cap. Silverman opened the room door for them and closed it\
carefully behind him. \'93Thank you for your consideration, gentlemen....\
My wife thanks you.\'94 Rosie sat in a straight chair in the corner of the\
room. She was biting her tongue hard, harder to try to keep her lips\
from twitching.\
\
\'93We realize Mr. Silverman that this is not quite the ordinary criminal\
case.\'94\
\
\'93Wont you have a drink gentlemen?\'94\
\
They shook their heads. The thickset man was lighting a fresh cigar.\
\
\'93Allright Mike,\'94 he said to the lean man. \'93Go through the drawers and\
closet.\'94\
\
\'93Is that regular?\'94\
\
\'93If this was regular we\'92d have the handcuffs on you and be running the\
lady here as an accessory.\'94\
\
Rosie sat with her icy hands clasped between her knees swaying her body\
from side to side. Her eyes were closed. While the detectives were\
rummaging in the closet, Silverman took the opportunity to put his hand\
on her shoulder. She opened her eyes. \'93The minute the goddam dicks take\
me out phone Schatz and tell him everything. Get hold of him if you\
have to wake up everybody in New York.\'94 He spoke low and fast, his lips\
barely moving.\
\
Almost immediately he was gone, followed by the two detectives with a\
satchel full of letters. His kiss was still wet on her lips. She looked\
dazedly round the empty deathly quiet room. She noticed some writing\
on the lavender blotter on the desk. It was his handwriting, very\
scrawly: Hock everything and beat it; you are a good kid. Tears began\
running down her cheeks. She sat a long while with her head dropped on\
the desk kissing the penciled words on the blotter.\
\
\
\
\
IV. Skyscraper\
\
          _The young man without legs has stopped still in the middle\
          of the south sidewalk of Fourteenth Street. He wears a blue\
          knitted sweater and a blue stocking cap. His eyes staring\
          up widen until they fill the paperwhite face. Drifts across\
          the sky a dirigible, bright tinfoil cigar misted with\
          height, gently prodding the rainwashed sky and the soft\
          clouds. The young man without legs stops still propped on\
          his arms in the middle of the south sidewalk of Fourteenth\
          Street. Among striding legs, lean legs, waddling legs, legs\
          in skirts and pants and knickerbockers, he stops perfectly\
          still, propped on his arms, looking up at the dirigible._\
\
\
Jobless, Jimmy Herf came out of the Pulizter Building. He stood beside\
a pile of pink newspapers on the curb, taking deep breaths, looking up\
the glistening shaft of the Woolworth. It was a sunny day, the sky was\
a robin\'92s egg blue. He turned north and began to walk uptown. As he\
got away from it the Woolworth pulled out like a telescope. He walked\
north through the city of shiny windows, through the city of scrambled\
alphabets, through the city of gilt letter signs.\
\
Spring rich in gluten.... Chockful of golden richness, delight in\
every bite, THE DADDY OF THEM ALL, spring rich in gluten. Nobody can\
buy better bread than PRINCE ALBERT. Wrought steel, monel, copper,\
nickel, wrought iron. _All the world loves natural beauty._ LOVE\'92S\
BARGAIN that suit at Gumpel\'92s best value in town. Keep that schoolgirl\
complexion.... JOE KISS, starting, lightning, ignition and generators.\
\
Everything made him bubble with repressed giggles. It was eleven\
o\'92clock. He hadnt been to bed. Life was upside down, he was a fly\
walking on the ceiling of a topsy-turvy city. He\'92d thrown up his job,\
he had nothing to do today, tomorrow, next day, day after. Whatever\
goes up comes down, but not for weeks, months. Spring rich in gluten.\
\
He went into a lunchroom, ordered bacon and eggs, toast and coffee, sat\
eating them happily, tasting thoroughly every mouthful. His thoughts\
ran wild like a pasture full of yearling colts crazy with sundown. At\
the next table a voice was expounding monotonously:\
\
\'93Jilted ... and I tell you we had to do some cleaning. They were all\
members of your church you know. We knew the whole story. He was\
advised to put her away. He said, \'91No I\'92m going to see it through\'92.\'94\
\
Herf got to his feet. He must be walking again. He went out with a\
taste of bacon in his teeth.\
\
_Express service meets the demands of spring._ O God to meet the\
demands of spring. No tins, no sir, but there\'92s rich quality in every\
mellow pipeful.... SOCONY. One taste tells more than a million words.\
The yellow pencil with the red band. Than a million words, than a\
million words. \'93All right hand over that million.... Keep him covered\
Ben.\'94 The Yonkers gang left him for dead on a bench in the park. They\
stuck him up, but all they got was a million words.... \'93But Jimps I\'92m\
so tired of booktalk and the proletariat, cant you understand?\'94\
\
Chockful of golden richness, spring.\
\
Dick Snow\'92s mother owned a shoebox factory. She failed and he came\
out of school and took to standing on streetcorners. The guy in the\
softdrink stand put him wise. He\'92d made two payments on pearl earings\
for a blackhaired Jewish girl with a shape like a mandolin. They waited\
for the bankmessenger in the L station. He pitched over the turnstile\
and hung there. They went off with the satchel in a Ford sedan.\
Dick Snow stayed behind emptying his gun into the dead man. In the\
deathhouse he met the demands of spring by writing a poem to his mother\
that they published in the _Evening Graphic_.\
\
With every deep breath Herf breathed in rumble and grind and painted\
phrases until he began to swell, felt himself stumbling big and vague,\
staggering like a pillar of smoke above the April streets, looking into\
the windows of machineshops, buttonfactories, tenementhouses, felt of\
the grime of bedlinen and the smooth whir of lathes, wrote cusswords on\
typewriters between the stenographer\'92s fingers, mixed up the pricetags\
in departmentstores. Inside he fizzled like sodawater into sweet\
April syrups, strawberry, sarsaparilla, chocolate, cherry, vanilla\
dripping foam through the mild gasolineblue air. He dropped sickeningly\
fortyfour stories, crashed. And suppose I bought a gun and killed\
Ellie, would I meet the demands of April sitting in the deathhouse\
writing a poem about my mother to be published in the _Evening Graphic_?\
\
He shrank until he was of the smallness of dust, picking his way over\
crags and bowlders in the roaring gutter, climbing straws, skirting\
motoroil lakes.\
\
He sat in Washington Square, pink with noon, looking up Fifth Avenue\
through the arch. The fever had seeped out of him. He felt cool and\
tired. Another spring, God how many springs ago, walking from the\
cemetery up the blue macadam road where fieldsparrows sang and the sign\
said: Yonkers. In Yonkers I buried my boyhood, in Marseilles with the\
wind in my face I dumped my calf years into the harbor. Where in New\
York shall I bury my twenties? Maybe they were deported and went out to\
sea on the Ellis Island ferry singing the International. The growl of\
the International over the water, fading sighing into the mist.\
\
                                DEPORTED\
\
     James Herf young newspaper man of 190 West 12th Street\
     recently lost his twenties. Appearing before Judge Merivale\
     they were remanded to Ellis Island for deportation as\
     undesirable aliens. The younger four Sasha Michael Nicholas\
     and Vladimir had been held for some time on a charge of\
     criminal anarchy. The fifth and sixth were held on a\
     technical charge of vagrancy. The later ones Bill Tony\
     and Joe were held under various indictments including\
     wifebeating, arson, assault, and prostitution. All were\
     convicted on counts of misfeasance, malfeasance, and\
     nonfeasance.\
\
     Oyez oyez oyez prisoner at the bar.... I find the evidence\
     dubious said the judge pouring himself out a snifter.\
     The clerk of the court who was stirring an oldfashioned\
     cocktail became overgrown with vineleaves and the courtroom\
     reeked with the smell of flowering grapes and the Shining\
     Bootlegger took the bulls by the horns and led them lowing\
     gently down the courthouse steps. \'93Court is adjourned\
     by hicky,\'94 shouted the judge when he found gin in his\
     waterbottle. The reporters discovered the mayor dressed\
     in a leopard skin posing as Civic Virtue with his foot\
     on the back of Princess Fifi the oriental dancer. Your\
     correspondent was leaning out of the window of the Banker\'92s\
     Club in the company of his uncle, Jefferson T. Merivale,\
     wellknown clubman of this city and two lamb chops well\
     peppered. Meanwhile the waiters were hastily organizing\
     an orchestra, using the potbellies of the Gausenheimers\
     for snaredrums. The head waiter gave a truly delightful\
     rendition of _My Old Kentucky Home_, utilizing for the\
     first time the resonant bald heads of the seven directors\
     of the Well Watered Gasoline Company of Delaware as a\
     xylophone. And all the while the Shining Bootlegger in\
     purple running drawers and a blue-ribbon silk hat was\
     leading the bulls up Broadway to the number of two million,\
     threehundred and fortytwo thousand, five hundred and one.\
     As they reached the Spuyten Duyvil, they were incontinently\
     drowned, rank after rank, in an attempt to swim to Yonkers.\
\
     And as I sit here, thought Jimmy Herf, print itches like a\
     rash inside me. I sit here pockmarked with print. He got to\
     his feet. A little yellow dog was curled up asleep under\
     the bench. The little yellow dog looked very happy. \'93What I\
     need\'92s a good sleep,\'94 Jimmy said aloud.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93What are you goin to do with it, Dutch, are you goin to hock it?\'94\
\
\'93Francie I wouldnt take a million dollars for that little gun.\'94\
\
\'93For Gawd\'92s sake dont start talkin about money, now.... Next thing some\
cop\'92ll see it on your hip and arrest you for the Sullivan law.\'94\
\
\'93The cop who\'92s goin to arrest me\'92s not born yet.... Just you forget\
that stuff.\'94\
\
Francie began to whimper. \'93But Dutch what are we goin to do, what are\
we goin to do?\'94\
\
Dutch suddenly rammed the pistol into his pocket and jumped to his\
feet. He walked jerkily back and forth on the asphalt path. It was\
a foggy evening, raw; automobiles moving along the slushy road made\
an endless interweaving flicker of cobwebby light among the skeleton\
shrubberies.\
\
\'93Jez you make me nervous with your whimperin an cryin.... Cant you shut\
up?\'94 He sat down beside her sullenly again. \'93I thought I heard somebody\
movin in the bushes.... This goddam park\'92s full of plainclothes men....\
There\'92s nowhere you can go in the whole crummy city without people\
watchin you.\'94\
\
\'93I wouldnt mind it if I didnt feel so rotten. I cant eat anythin\
without throwin up an I\'92m so scared all the time the other girls\'92ll\
notice something.\'94\
\
\'93But I\'92ve told you I had a way o fixin everythin, aint I? I promise you\
I\'92ll fix everythin fine in a couple of days.... We\'92ll go away an git\
married. We\'92ll go down South.... I bet there\'92s lots of jobs in other\
places.... I\'92m gettin cold, let\'92s get the hell outa here.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Dutch,\'94 said Francie in a tired voice as they walked down the\
muddyglistening asphalt path, \'93do you think we\'92re ever goin to have a\
good time again like we used to?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re S.O.L. now but that dont mean we\'92re always goin to be. I lived\
through those gas attacks in the Oregon forest didnt I? I been dopin\
out a lot of things these last few days.\'94\
\
\'93Dutch if you go and get arrested there\'92ll be nothin left for me to do\
but jump in the river.\'94\
\
\'93Didnt I tell you I wasnt goin to get arrested?\'94\
\
Mrs. Cohen, a bent old woman with a face brown and blotched like a\
russet apple, stands beside the kitchen table with her gnarled hands\
folded over her belly. She sways from the hips as she scolds in an\
endless querulous stream of Yiddish at Anna sitting blearyeyed with\
sleep over a cup of coffee: \'93If you had been blasted in the cradle\
it would have been better, if you had been born dead.... Oy what for\
have I raised four children that they should all of them be no good,\
agitators and streetwalkers and bums...? Benny in jail twice, and Sol\
God knows where making trouble, and Sarah accursed given up to sin\
kicking up her legs at Minski\'92s, and now you, may you wither in your\
chair, picketing for the garment workers, walking along the street\
shameless with a sign on your back.\'94\
\
Anna dipped a piece of bread in the coffee and put it in her mouth. \'93Aw\
mommer you dont understand,\'94 she said with her mouth full.\
\
\'93Understand, understand harlotry and sinfulness...? Oy why dont you\
attend to your work and keep your mouth shut, and draw your pay\
quietly? You used to make good money and could have got married decent\
before you took to running wild in dance halls with a goy. Oy oy that\
I\'92ve raised daughters in my old age no decent man\'92d want to take to his\
house and marry....\'94\
\
Anna got to her feet shrieking \'93It\'92s no business of yours.... I\'92ve\
always paid my part of the rent regular. You think a girl\'92s worth\
nothin but for a slave and to grind her fingers off workin all her\
life.... I think different, do you hear? Dont you dare scold at me....\'94\
\
\'93Oy you will talk back to your old mother. If Solomon was alive he\'92d\
take a stick to you. Better to have been born dead than talk back to\
your mother like a goy. Get out of the house and quick before I blast\
you.\'94\
\
\'93All right I will.\'94 Anna ran through the narrow trunk-obstructed\
hallway to the bedroom and threw herself on her bed. Her cheeks were\
burning. She lay quiet trying to think. From the kitchen came the old\
woman\'92s fierce monotonous sobbing.\
\
Anna raised herself to a sitting posture on the bed. She caught sight\
in the mirror opposite of a strained teardabbled face and rumpled\
stringy hair. \'93My Gawd I\'92m a sight,\'94 she sighed. As she got to her feet\
her heel caught on the braid of her dress. The dress tore sharply. Anna\
sat on the edge of the bed and cried and cried. Then she sewed the\
rent in the dress up carefully with tiny meticulous stitches. Sewing\
made her feel calmer. She put on her hat, powdered her nose copiously,\
put a little rouge on her lips, got into her coat and went out. April\
was coaxing unexpected colors out of the East Side streets. Sweet\
voluptuous freshness came from a pushcart full of pineapples. At the\
corner she found Rose Segal and Lillian Diamond drinking coca-cola at\
the softdrink stand.\
\
\'93Anna have a coke with us,\'94 they chimed.\
\
\'93I will if you\'92ll blow me.... I\'92m broke.\'94\
\
\'93Vy, didnt you get your strike pay?\'94\
\
\'93I gave it all to the old woman.... Dont do no good though. She goes on\
scoldin all day long. She\'92s too old.\'94\
\
\'93Did you hear how gunmen broke in and busted up Ike Goldstein\'92s shop?\
Busted up everythin wid hammers an left him unconscious on top of a lot\
of dressgoods.\'94\
\
\'93Oh that\'92s terrible.\'94\
\
\'93Soive him right I say.\'94\
\
\'93But they oughtnt to destroy property like that. We make our livin by\
it as much as he does.\'94\
\
\'93A pretty fine livin.... I\'92m near dead wid it,\'94 said Anna banging her\
empty glass down on the counter.\
\
\'93Easy easy,\'94 said the man in the stand. \'93Look out for the crockery.\'94\
\
\'93But the worst thing was,\'94 went on Rose Segal, \'93that while they was\
fightin up in Goldstein\'92s a rivet flew out the winder an fell nine\
stories an killed a fireman passin on a truck so\'92s he dropped dead in\
the street.\'94\
\
\'93What for did they do that?\'94\
\
\'93Some guy must have slung it at some other guy and it pitched out of\
the winder.\'94\
\
\'93And killed a fireman.\'94\
\
Anna saw Elmer coming towards them down the avenue, his thin face\
stuck forward, his hands hidden in the pockets of his frayed overcoat.\
She left the two girls and walked towards him. \'93Was you goin down\
to the house? Dont lets go, cause the old woman\'92s scoldin somethin\
terrible.... I wish I could get her into the Daughters of Israel. I\
cant stand her no more.\'94\
\
\'93Then let\'92s walk over and sit in the square,\'94 said Elmer. \'93Dont you\
feel the spring?\'94\
\
She looked at him out of the corner of her eye. \'93Dont I? Oh Elmer I\
wish this strike was over.... It gets me crazy doin nothin all day.\'94\
\
\'93But Anna the strike is the worker\'92s great opportunity, the worker\'92s\
university. It gives you a chance to study and read and go to the\
Public Library.\'94\
\
\'93But you always think it\'92ll be over in a day or two, an what\'92s the use\
anyway?\'94\
\
\'93The more educated a feller is the more use he is to his class.\'94\
\
They sat down on a bench with their backs to the playground. The sky\
overhead was glittering with motherofpearl flakes of sunset. Dirty\
children yelled and racketed about the asphalt paths.\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 said Anna looking up at the sky, \'93I\'92d like to have a Paris\
evening dress an you have a dress suit and go out to dinner at a swell\
restaurant an go to the theater an everything.\'94\
\
\'93If we lived in a decent society we might be able to.... There\'92d be\
gayety for the workers then, after the revolution.\'94\
\
\'93But Elmer what\'92s the use if we\'92re old and scoldin like the old woman?\'94\
\
\'93Our children will have those things.\'94\
\
Anna sat bolt upright on the seat. \'93I aint never goin to have any\
children,\'94 she said between her teeth, \'93never, never, never.\'94\
\
Alice touched his arm as they turned to look in the window of an\
Italian pastryshop. On each cake ornamented with bright analin flowers\
and flutings stood a sugar lamb for Easter and the resurrection banner.\
\'93Jimmy,\'94 she said turning up to him her little oval face with her lips\
too red like the roses on the cakes, \'93you\'92ve got to do something about\
Roy.... He\'92s got to get to work. I\'92ll go crazy if I have him sitting\
round the house any more reading the papers wearing that dreadful\
adenoid expression.... You know what I mean.... He respects you.\'94\
\
\'93But he\'92s trying to get a job.\'94\
\
\'93He doesnt really try, you know it.\'94\
\
\'93He thinks he does. I guess he\'92s got a funny idea about himself.... But\
I\'92m a fine person to talk about jobs ...\'94\
\
\'93Oh I know, I think it\'92s wonderful. Everybody says you\'92ve given up\
newspaper work and are going to write.\'94\
\
Jimmy found himself looking down into her widening brown eyes, that had\
a glimmer at the bottom like the glimmer of water in a well. He turned\
his head away; there was a catch in his throat; he coughed. They walked\
on along the lilting brightcolored street.\
\
At the door of the restaurant they found Roy and Martin Schiff waiting\
for them. They went through an outer room into a long hall crowded\
with tables packed between two greenish bluish paintings of the Bay\
of Naples. The air was heavy with a smell of parmesan cheese and\
cigarettesmoke and tomato sauce. Alice made a little face as she\
settled herself in a chair.\
\
\'93Ou I want a cocktail right away quick.\'94\
\
\'93I must be kinder simpleminded,\'94 said Herf, \'93but these boats coquetting\
in front of Vesuvius always make me feel like getting a move on\
somewhere.... I think I\'92ll be getting along out of here in a couple of\
weeks.\'94\
\
\'93But Jimmy where are you going?\'94 asked Roy. \'93Isnt this something new?\'94\
\
\'93Hasnt Helena got something to say about that?\'94 put in Alice.\
\
Herf turned red. \'93Why should she?\'94 he said sharply.\
\
\'93I just found there was nothing in it for me,\'94 he found himself saying\
a little later.\
\
\'93Oh we none of us know what we want,\'94 burst out Martin. \'93That\'92s why\
we\'92re such a peewee generation.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m beginning to learn a few of the things I dont want,\'94 said Herf\
quietly. \'93At least I\'92m beginning to have the nerve to admit to myself\
how much I dislike all the things I dont want.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s wonderful,\'94 cried Alice, \'93throwing away a career for an\
ideal.\'94\
\
\'93Excuse me,\'94 said Herf pushing back his chair. In the toilet he looked\
himself in the eye in the wavy lookingglass.\
\
\'93Dont talk,\'94 he whispered. \'93What you talk about you never do....\'94 His\
face had a drunken look. He filled the hollow of his two hands with\
water and washed it. At the table they cheered when he sat down.\
\
\'93Yea for the wanderer,\'94 said Roy.\
\
Alice was eating cheese on long slices of pear. \'93I think it\'92s\
thrilling,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93Roy is bored,\'94 shouted Martin Schiff after a silence. His face with\
its big eyes and bone glasses swam through the smoke of the restaurant\
like a fish in a murky aquarium.\
\
\'93I was just thinking of all the places I had to go to look for a job\
tomorrow.\'94\
\
\'93You want a job?\'94 Martin went on melodramatically. \'93You want to sell\
your soul to the highest bidder?\'94\
\
\'93Jez if that\'92s all you had to sell....\'94 moaned Roy.\
\
\'93It\'92s my morning sleep that worries me.... Still it is lousy putting\
over your personality and all that stuff. It\'92s not your ability to do\
the work it\'92s your personality.\'94\
\
\'93Prostitutes are the only honest ...\'94\
\
\'93But good Lord a prostitute sells her personality.\'94\
\
\'93She only rents it.\'94\
\
\'93But Roy is bored.... You are all bored.... I\'92m boring you all.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re having the time of our lives,\'94 insisted Alice. \'93Now Martin we\
wouldn\'92t be sitting here if we were bored, would we?... I wish Jimmy\
would tell us where he expected to go on his mysterious travels.\'94\
\
\'93No, you are saying to yourselves what a bore he is, what use is he to\
society? He has no money, he has no pretty wife, no good conversation,\
no tips on the stockmarket. He\'92s a useless fardel on society.... The\
artist is a fardel.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s not so Martin.... You\'92re talking through your hat.\'94\
\
Martin waved an arm across the table. Two wineglasses upset. A\
scaredlooking waiter laid a napkin over the red streams. Without\
noticing, Martin went on, \'93It\'92s all pretense.... When you talk you talk\
with the little lying tips of your tongues. You dont dare lay bare your\
real souls.... But now you must listen to me for the last time.... For\
the last time I say.... Come here waiter you too, lean over and look\
into the black pit of the soul of man. And Herf is bored. You are all\
bored, bored flies buzzing on the windowpane. You think the windowpane\
is the room. You dont know what there is deep black inside.... I am\
very drunk. Waiter another bottle.\'94\
\
\'93Say hold your horses Martin.... I dont know if we can pay the bill as\
it is.... We dont need any more.\'94\
\
\'93Waiter another bottle of wine and four grappas.\'94\
\
\'93Well it looks as if we were in for a rough night,\'94 groaned Roy.\
\
\'93If there is need my body can pay.... Alice take off your mask....\
You are a beautiful little child behind your mask.... Come with me to\
the edge of the pit.... O I am too drunk to tell you what I feel.\'94 He\
brushed off his tortoiseshell glasses and crumpled them in his hand,\
the lenses shot glittering across the floor. The gaping waiter ducked\
among the tables after them.\
\
For a moment Martin sat blinking. The rest of them looked at each\
other. Then he shot to his feet. \'93I see your little smirking\
supercil-superciliosity. No wonder we can no longer have decent\
dinners, decent conversations.... I must prove my atavistic sincerity,\
prove....\'94 He started pulling at his necktie.\
\
\'93Say Martin old man, pipe down,\'94 Roy was reiterating.\
\
\'93Nobody shall stop me.... I must run into the sincerity of black....\
I must run to the end of the black wharf on the East River and throw\
myself off.\'94\
\
Herf ran after him through the restaurant to the street. At the door he\
threw off his coat, at the corner his vest.\
\
\'93Gosh he runs like a deer,\'94 panted Roy staggering against Herf\'92s\
shoulder. Herf picked up the coat and vest, folded them under his arm\
and went back to the restaurant. They were pale when they sat down on\
either side of Alice.\
\
\'93Will he really do it? Will he really do it?\'94 she kept asking.\
\
\'93No of course not,\'94 said Roy. \'93He\'92ll go home; he was making fools of us\
because we played up to him.\'94\
\
\'93Suppose he really did it?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d hate to see him.... I like him very much. We named our kid after\
him,\'94 said Jimmy gloomily. \'93But if he really feels so terribly unhappy\
what right have we to stop him?\'94\
\
\'93Oh Jimmy,\'94 sighed Alice, \'93do order some coffee.\'94\
\
Outside a fire engine moaned throbbed roared down the street. Their\
hands were cold. They sipped the coffee without speaking.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Francie came out of the side door of the Five and Ten into the six\
o\'92clock goinghome end of the day crowd. Dutch Robertson was waiting for\
her. He was smiling; there was color in his face.\
\
\'93Why Dutch what\'92s ...\'94 The words stuck in her throat.\
\
\'93Dont you like it...?\'94 They walked on down Fourteenth, a blur of faces\
streamed by on either side of them. \'93Everything\'92s jake Francie,\'94 he was\
saying quietly. He wore a light gray spring overcoat and a light felt\
hat to match. New red pointed Oxfords glowed on his feet. \'93How do you\
like the outfit? I said to myself it wasnt no use tryin to do anythin\
without a tony outside.\'94\
\
\'93But Dutch how did you get it?\'94\
\
\'93Stuck up a guy in a cigar store. Jez it was a cinch.\'94\
\
\'93Ssh dont talk so loud; somebody might hear ye.\'94\
\
\'93They wouldnt know what I was talkin about.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Mr. Densch sat in the corner of Mrs. Densch\'92s Louis XIV boudoir. He\
sat all hunched up on a little gilt pinkbacked chair with his potbelly\
resting on his knees. In his green sagging face the pudgy nose and the\
folds that led from the flanges of the nostrils to the corners of the\
wide mouth made two triangles. He had a pile of telegrams in his hand,\
on top a decoded message on a blue slip that read: Deficit Hamburg\
branch approximately $500,000; signed Heintz. Everywhere he looked\
about the little room crowded with fluffy glittery objects he saw the\
purple letters of _approximately_ jiggling in the air. Then he noticed\
that the maid, a pale mulatto in a ruffled cap, had come into the room\
and was staring at him. His eye lit on a large flat cardboard box she\
held in her hand.\
\
\'93What\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Somethin for the misses sir.\'94\
\
\'93Bring it here.... Hickson\'92s ... and what does she want to be buying\
more dresses for will you tell me that.... Hickson\'92s.... Open it up. If\
it looks expensive I\'92ll send it back.\'94\
\
The maid gingerly pulled off a layer of tissuepaper, uncovering a peach\
and peagreen evening dress.\
\
Mr. Densch got to his feet spluttering, \'93She must think the war\'92s still\
on.... Tell em we will not receive it. Tell em there\'92s no such party\
livin here.\'94\
\
The maid picked up the box with a toss of the head and went out with\
her nose in the air. Mr. Densch sat down in the little chair and began\
looking over the telegrams again.\
\
\'93Ann-ee, Ann-ee,\'94 came a shrill voice from the inner room; this was\
followed by a head in a lace cap shaped like a libertycap and a big\
body in a shapeless ruffled neglig\'e9e. \'93Why J. D. what are you doing\
here at this time of the morning? I\'92m waiting for my hairdresser.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s very important.... I just had a cable from Heintz. Serena my\
dear, Blackhead and Densch is in a very bad way on both sides of the\
water.\'94\
\
\'93Yes ma\'92am,\'94 came the maid\'92s voice from behind him.\
\
He gave his shoulders a shrug and walked to the window. He felt tired\
and sick and heavy with flesh. An errand boy on a bicycle passed along\
the street; he was laughing and his cheeks were pink. Densch saw\
himself, felt himself for a second hot and slender running bareheaded\
down Pine Street years ago catching the girls\'92 ankles in the corner of\
his eye. He turned back into the room. The maid had gone.\
\
\'93Serena,\'94 he began, \'93cant you understand the seriousness...? It\'92s this\
slump. And on top of it all the bean market has gone to hell. It\'92s ruin\
I tell you....\'94\
\
\'93Well my dear I dont see what you expect me to do about it.\'94\
\
\'93Economize ... economize. Look where the price of rubber\'92s gone to....\
That dress from Hickson\'92s....\'94\
\
\'93Well you wouldnt have me going to the Blackhead\'92s party looking like a\
country schoolteacher, would you?\'94\
\
Mr. Densch groaned and shook his head. \'93O you wont understand; probably\
there wont be any party.... Look Serena there\'92s no nonsense about\
this.... I want you to have a trunk packed so that we can sail any\
day.... I need a rest. I\'92m thinking of going to Marienbad for the\
cure.... It\'92ll do you good too.\'94\
\
Her eye suddenly caught his. All the little wrinkles on her face\
deepened; the skin under her eyes was like the skin of a shrunken toy\
balloon. He went over to her and put his hand on her shoulder and was\
puckering his lips to kiss her when suddenly she flared up.\
\
\'93I wont have you meddling between me and my dressmakers.... I wont have\
it ... I wont have it....\'94\
\
\'93Oh have it your own way.\'94 He left the room with his head hunched\
between his thick sloping shoulders.\
\
\'93Ann-ee!\'94\
\
\'93Yes ma\'92am.\'94 The maid came back into the room.\
\
Mrs. Densch had sunk down in the middle of a little spindlelegged sofa.\
Her face was green. \'93Annie please get me that bottle of sweet spirits\
of ammonia and a little water.... And Annie you can call up Hickson\'92s\
and tell them that that dress was sent back through a mistake of ... of\
the butler\'92s and please to send it right back as I\'92ve got to wear it\
tonight.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Pursuit of happiness, unalienable pursuit ... right to life liberty\
and.... A black moonless night; Jimmy Herf is walking alone up South\
Street. Behind the wharfhouses ships raise shadowy skeletons against\
the night. \'93By Jesus I admit that I\'92m stumped,\'94 he says aloud. All\
these April nights combing the streets alone a skyscraper has obsessed\
him, a grooved building jutting up with uncountable bright windows\
falling onto him out of a scudding sky. Typewriters rain continual\
nickelplated confetti in his ears. Faces of Follies girls, glorified\
by Ziegfeld, smile and beckon to him from the windows. Ellie in a gold\
dress, Ellie made of thin gold foil absolutely lifelike beckoning from\
every window. And he walks round blocks and blocks looking for the\
door of the humming tinselwindowed skyscraper, round blocks and blocks\
and still no door. Every time he closes his eyes the dream has hold\
of him, every time he stops arguing audibly with himself in pompous\
reasonable phrases the dream has hold of him. Young man to save your\
sanity you\'92ve got to do one of two things.... Please mister where\'92s the\
door to this building? Round the block? Just round the block ... one of\
two unalienable alternatives: go away in a dirty soft shirt or stay in\
a clean Arrow collar. But what\'92s the use of spending your whole life\
fleeing the City of Destruction? What about your unalienable right,\
Thirteen Provinces? His mind unreeling phrases, he walks on doggedly.\
There\'92s nowhere in particular he wants to go. If only I still had faith\
in words.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93How do you do Mr. Goldstein?\'94 the reporter breezily chanted as he\
squeezed the thick flipper held out to him over the counter of the\
cigar store. \'93My name\'92s Brewster.... I\'92m writing up the crime wave for\
the _News_.\'94\
\
Mr. Goldstein was a larvashaped man with a hooked nose a little\
crooked in a gray face, behind which pink attentive ears stood out\
unexpectedly. He looked at the reporter out of suspicious screwedup\
eyes.\
\
\'93If you\'92d be so good I\'92d like to have your story of last night\'92s little\
... misadventure ...\'94\
\
\'93Vont get no story from me young man. Vat vill you do but print it so\
that other boys and goils vill get the same idear.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s too bad you feel that way Mr. Goldstein ... Will you give me a\
Robert Burns please...? Publicity it seems to me is as necessary as\
ventilation.... It lets in fresh air.\'94 The reporter bit off the end\
of the cigar, lit it, and stood looking thoughtfully at Mr. Goldstein\
through a swirling ring of blue smoke. \'93You see Mr. Goldstein it\'92s\
this way,\'94 he began impressively. \'93We are handling this matter from\
the human interest angle ... pity and tears ... you understand. A\
photographer was on his way out here to get your photograph.... I bet\
you it would increase your volume of business for the next couple of\
weeks.... I suppose I\'92ll have to phone him not to come now.\'94\
\
\'93Well this guy,\'94 began Mr. Goldstein abruptly, \'93he\'92s a welldressed\
lookin feller, new spring overcoat an all that and he comes in to buy\
a package o Camels.... \'91A nice night,\'92 he says openin the package an\
takin out a cigarette to smoke it. Then I notices the goil with him had\
a veil on.\'94\
\
\'93Then she didnt have bobbed hair?\'94\
\
\'93All I seen was a kind o mournin veil. The foist thing I knew she was\
behind the counter an had a gun stuck in my ribs an began talkin ...\
you know kinder kiddin like ... and afore I knew what to think the\
guy\'92d cleaned out the cashregister an says to me, \'91Got any cash in your\
jeans Buddy?\'92 I\'92ll tell ye I was sweatin some ...\'94\
\
\'93And that\'92s all?\'94\
\
\'93Sure by the time I\'92d got hold of a cop they vere off to hell an gone.\'94\
\
\'93How much did they get?\'94\
\
\'93Oh about fifty berries an six dollars off me.\'94\
\
\'93Was the girl pretty?\'94\
\
\'93I dunno, maybe she was. I\'92d like to smashed her face in. They ought\
to make it the electric chair for those babies.... Aint no security\
nowhere. Vy should anybody voirk if all you\'92ve got to do is get a gun\
an stick up your neighbors?\'94\
\
\'93You say they were welldressed ... like welltodo people?\'94\
\
\'93Yare.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m working on the theory that he\'92s a college boy and that she\'92s a\
society girl and that they do it for sport.\'94\
\
\'93The feller vas a hardlookin bastard.\'94\
\
\'93Well there are hardlooking college men.... You wait for the story\
called \'91The Gilded Bandits\'92 in next Sunday\'92s paper Mr. Goldstein....\
You take the _News_ dont you?\'94\
\
Mr. Goldstein shook his head.\
\
\'93I\'92ll send you a copy anyway.\'94\
\
\'93I want to see those babies convicted, do you understand? If there\'92s\
anythin I can do I sure vill do it ... Aint no security no more.... I\
dont care about no Sunday supplement publicity.\'94\
\
\'93Well the photographer\'92ll be right along. I\'92m sure you\'92ll consent\
to pose Mr. Goldstein.... Well thank you very much.... Good day Mr.\
Goldstein.\'94\
\
Mr. Goldstein suddenly produced a shiny new revolver from under the\
counter and pointed it at the reporter.\
\
\'93Hay go easy with that.\'94\
\
Mr. Goldstein laughed a sardonic laugh. \'93I\'92m ready for em next time\
they come,\'94 he shouted after the reporter who was already making for\
the Subway.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Our business, my dear Mrs. Herf,\'94 declaimed Mr. Harpsicourt, looking\
sweetly in her eyes and smiling his gray Cheshire cat smile, \'93is to\
roll ashore on the wave of fashion the second before it breaks, like\
riding a surfboard.\'94\
\
Ellen was delicately digging with her spoon into half an alligator\
pear; she kept her eyes on her plate, her lips a little parted; she\
felt cool and slender in the tightfitting darkblue dress, shyly alert\
in the middle of the tangle of sideways glances and the singsong modish\
talk of the restaurant.\
\
\'93It\'92s a knack that I can prophesy in you more than in any girl, and\
more charmingly than any girl I\'92ve ever known.\'94\
\
\'93Prophesy?\'94 asked Ellen, looking up at him laughing.\
\
\'93You shouldnt pick up an old man\'92s word.... I\'92m expressing myself\
badly.... That\'92s always a dangerous sign. No, you understand so\
perfectly, though you disdain it a little ... admit that.... What we\
need on such a periodical, that I\'92m sure you could explain it to me far\
better.\'94\
\
\'93Of course what you want to do is make every reader feel Johnny on the\
spot in the center of things.\'94\
\
\'93As if she were having lunch right here at the Algonquin.\'94\
\
\'93Not today but tomorrow,\'94 added Ellen.\
\
Mr. Harpsicourt laughed his creaky little laugh and tried to look deep\
among the laughing gold specs in her gray eyes. Blushing she looked\
down into the gutted half of an alligator pear in her plate. Like the\
sense of a mirror behind her she felt the smart probing glances of men\
and women at the tables round about.\
\
The pancakes were comfortably furry against his gin-bitten tongue.\
Jimmy Herf sat in Child\'92s in the middle of a noisy drunken company.\
Eyes, lips, evening dresses, the smell of bacon and coffee blurred and\
throbbed about him. He ate the pancakes painstakingly, called for more\
coffee. He felt better. He had been afraid he was going to feel sick.\
He began reading the paper. The print swam and spread like Japanese\
flowers. Then it was sharp again, orderly, running in a smooth black\
and white paste over his orderly black and white brain:\
\
     Misguided youth again took its toll of tragedy amid the\
     tinsel gayeties of Coney Island fresh painted for the\
     season when plainclothes men arrested \'93Dutch\'94 Robinson and\
     a girl companion alleged to be the Flapper Bandit. The pair\
     are accused of committing more than a score of holdups\
     in Brooklyn and Queens. The police had been watching the\
     couple for some days. They had rented a small kitchenette\
     apartment at 7356 Seacroft Avenue. Suspicion was first\
     aroused when the girl, about to become a mother, was taken\
     in an ambulance to the Canarsie Presbyterian Hospital.\
     Hospital attendants were surprised by Robinson\'92s seemingly\
     endless supply of money. The girl had a private room,\
     expensive flowers and fruit were sent in to her daily, and\
     a well-known physician was called into consultation at the\
     man\'92s request. When it came to the point of registering\
     the name of the baby girl the young man admitted to the\
     physician that they were not married. One of the hospital\
     attendants, noticing that the woman answered to the\
     description published in the _Evening Times_ of the flapper\
     bandit and her pal, telephoned the police. Plainclothes men\
     sleuthed the couple for some days after they had returned\
     to the apartment on Seacroft Avenue and this afternoon made\
     the arrests.\
\
     The arrest of the flapper bandit ...\
\
A hot biscuit landed on Herf\'92s paper. He looked up with a start; a\
darkeyed Jewish girl at the next table was making a face at him. He\
nodded and took off an imaginary hat. \'93I thank thee lovely nymph,\'94 he\
said thickly and began eating the biscuit.\
\
\'93Quit dat djer hear?\'94 the young man who sat beside her, who looked like\
a prizefighter\'92s trainer, bellowed in her ear.\
\
The people at Herf\'92s table all had their mouths open laughing. He\
picked up his check, vaguely said good night and walked out. The clock\
over the cashier\'92s desk said three o\'92clock. Outside a rowdy scattering\
of people still milled about Columbus Circle. A smell of rainy\
pavements mingled with the exhausts of cars and occasionally there was\
a whiff of wet earth and sprouting grass from the Park. He stood a long\
time on the corner not knowing which way to go. These nights he hated\
to go home. He felt vaguely sorry that the Flapper Bandit and her pal\
had been arrested. He wished they could have escaped. He had looked\
forward to reading their exploits every day in the papers. Poor devils,\
he thought. And with a newborn baby too.\
\
Meanwhile a rumpus had started behind him in Child\'92s. He went back\
and looked through the window across the griddle where sizzled three\
abandoned buttercakes. The waiters were struggling to eject a tall\
man in a dress suit. The thickjawed friend of the Jewish girl who had\
thrown the biscuit was being held back by his friends. Then the bouncer\
elbowed his way through the crowd. He was a small broadshouldered man\
with deepset tired monkey eyes. Calmly and without enthusiasm he took\
hold of the tall man. In a flash he had him shooting through the door.\
Out on the pavement the tall man looked about him dazedly and tried to\
straighten his collar. At that moment a police-wagon drove up jingling.\
Two policemen jumped out and quickly arrested three Italians who stood\
chatting quietly on the corner. Herf and the tall man in the dress suit\
looked at each other, almost spoke and walked off greatly sobered in\
opposite directions.\
\
\
\
\
V. The Burthen of Nineveh\
\
          _Seeping in red twilight out of the Gulf Stream fog,\
          throbbing brassthroat that howls through the stiff-fingered\
          streets, prying open glazed eyes of skyscrapers, splashing\
          red lead on the girdered thighs of the five bridges,\
          teasing caterwauling tugboats into heat under the toppling\
          smoketrees of the harbor._\
\
          _Spring puckering our mouths, spring giving us gooseflesh\
          grows gigantic out of the droning of sirens, crashes with\
          enormous scaring din through the halted traffic, between\
          attentive frozen tiptoe blocks._\
\
\
Mr. Densch with the collar of his woolly ulster up round his ears and\
a big English cap pulled down far over his eyes, walked nervously back\
and forth on the damp boat deck of the Volendam. He looked out through\
a drizzly rain at the gray wharf houses and the waterfront buildings\
etched against a sky of inconceivable bitterness. A ruined man, a\
ruined man, he kept whispering to himself. At last the ship\'92s whistle\
boomed out for the third time. Mr. Densch, his fingers in his ears,\
stood screened by a lifeboat watching the rift of dirty water between\
the ship\'92s side and the wharf widen, widen. The deck trembled under\
his feet as the screws bit into the current. Gray like a photograph\
the buildings of Manhattan began sliding by. Below decks the band\
was playing _O Titin-e Titin-e_. Red ferryboats, carferries, tugs,\
sandscows, lumberschooners, tramp steamers drifted between him and the\
steaming towering city that gathered itself into a pyramid and began to\
sink mistily into the browngreen water of the bay.\
\
Mr. Densch went below to his stateroom. Mrs. Densch in a cloche hat\
hung with a yellow veil was crying quietly with her head on a basket of\
fruit. \'93Dont Serena,\'94 he said huskily. \'93Dont.... We like Marienbad....\
We need a rest. Our position isnt so hopeless. I\'92ll go and send\
Blackhead a radio.... After all it\'92s his stubbornness and rashness\
that brought the firm to ... to this. That man thinks he\'92s a king on\
earth.... This\'92ll ... this\'92ll get under his skin. If curses can kill\
I\'92ll be a dead man tomorrow.\'94 To his surprise he found the gray drawn\
lines of his face cracking into a smile. Mrs. Densch lifted her head\
and opened her mouth to speak to him, but the tears got the better\
of her. He looked at himself in the glass, squared his shoulders and\
adjusted his cap. \'93Well Serena,\'94 he said with a trace of jauntiness in\
his voice, \'93this is the end of my business career.... I\'92ll go send that\
radio.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Mother\'92s face swoops down and kisses him; his hands clutch her dress,\
and she has gone leaving him in the dark, leaving a frail lingering\
fragrance in the dark that makes him cry. Little Martin lies tossing\
within the iron bars of his crib. Outside dark, and beyond walls and\
outside again the horrible great dark of grownup people, rumbling,\
jiggling, creeping in chunks through the windows, putting fingers\
through the crack in the door. From outside above the roar of wheels\
comes a strangling wail clutching his throat. Pyramids of dark piled\
above him fall crumpling on top of him. He yells, gagging between\
yells. Nounou walks towards the crib along a saving gangplank of light\
\'93Dont you be scared ... that aint nothin.\'94 Her black face grins at him,\
her black hand straightens the covers. \'93Just a fire engine passin....\
You wouldn\'92t be sceered of a fire engine.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Ellen leaned back in the taxi and closed her eyes for a second. Not\
even the bath and the halfhour\'92s nap had washed out the fagging memory\
of the office, the smell of it, the chirruping of typewriters, the\
endlessly repeated phrases, faces, typewritten sheets. She felt very\
tired; she must have rings under her eyes. The taxi had stopped. There\
was a red light in the traffic tower ahead. Fifth Avenue was jammed\
to the curbs with taxis, limousines, motorbusses. She was late; she\
had left her watch at home. The minutes hung about her neck leaden\
as hours. She sat up on the edge of the seat, her fists so tightly\
clenched that she could feel through her gloves her sharp nails digging\
into the palms of her hands. At last the taxi jerked forward, there was\
a gust of exhausts and whir of motors, the clot of traffic began moving\
up Murray Hill. At a corner she caught sight of a clock. Quarter of\
eight. The traffic stopped again, the brakes of the taxi shrieked, she\
was thrown forward on the seat. She leaned back with her eyes closed,\
the blood throbbing in her temples. All her nerves were sharp steel\
jangled wires cutting into her. \'93What does it matter?\'94 she kept asking\
herself. \'93He\'92ll wait. I\'92m in no hurry to see him. Let\'92s see, how many\
blocks?... Less than twenty, eighteen.\'94 It must have been to keep from\
going crazy people invented numbers. The multiplication table better\
than Cou\'e9 as a cure for jangled nerves. Probably that\'92s what old Peter\
Stuyvesant thought, or whoever laid the city out in numbers. She was\
smiling to herself. The taxi had started moving again.\
\
George Baldwin was walking back and forth in the lobby of the hotel,\
taking short puffs of a cigarette. Now and then he glanced at the\
clock. His whole body was screwed up taut like a high violinstring. He\
was hungry and full up with things he wanted to say; he hated waiting\
for people. When she walked in, cool and silky and smiling, he wanted\
to go up to her and hit her in the face.\
\
\'93George do you realize that it\'92s only because numbers are so cold and\
emotionless that we\'92re not all crazy?\'94 she said giving him a little pat\
on the arm.\
\
\'93Fortyfive minutes waiting is enough to drive anybody crazy, that\'92s all\
I know.\'94\
\
\'93I must explain it. It\'92s a system. I thought it all up coming up in\
the taxi.... You go in and order anything you like. I\'92m going to\
the ladies\'92 room a minute.... And please have me a Martini. I\'92m dead\
tonight, just dead.\'94\
\
\'93You poor little thing, of course I will.... And dont be long please.\'94\
\
His knees were weak under him, he felt like melting ice as he went into\
the gilt ponderously ornamented diningroom. Good lord Baldwin you\'92re\
acting like a hobbledehoy of seventeen ... after all these years too.\
Never get anywhere that way.... \'93Well Joseph what are you going to give\
us to eat tonight? I\'92m hungry.... But first you can get Fred to make\
the best Martini cocktail he ever made in his life.\'94\
\
\'93Tres bien monsieur,\'94 said the longnosed Roumanian waiter and handed\
him the menu with a flourish.\
\
Ellen stayed a long time looking in the mirror, dabbing a little\
superfluous powder off her face, trying to make up her mind. She kept\
winding up a hypothetical dollself and setting it in various positions.\
Tiny gestures ensued, acted out on various model stages. Suddenly she\
turned away from the mirror with a shrug of her toowhite shoulders and\
hurried to the diningroom.\
\
\'93Oh George I\'92m starved, simply starved.\'94\
\
\'93So am I\'94 he said in a crackling voice. \'93And Elaine I\'92ve got news for\
you,\'94 he went on hurriedly as if he were afraid she\'92d interrupt him.\
\
\'93Cecily has consented to a divorce. We\'92re going to rush it through\
quietly in Paris this summer. Now what I want to know is, will you...?\'94\
\
She leaned over and patted his hand that grasped the edge of the table.\
\'93George lets eat our dinner first.... We\'92ve got to be sensible. God\
knows we\'92ve messed things up enough in the past both of us.... Let\'92s\
drink to the crime wave.\'94 The smooth infinitesimal foam of the cocktail\
was soothing in her tongue and throat, glowed gradually warmly through\
her. She looked at him laughing with sparkling eyes. He drank his at a\
gulp.\
\
\'93By gad Elaine,\'94 he said flaming up helplessly, \'93you\'92re the most\
wonderful thing in the world.\'94\
\
Through dinner she felt a gradual icy coldness stealing through her\
like novocaine. She had made up her mind. It seemed as if she had set\
the photograph of herself in her own place, forever frozen into a\
single gesture. An invisible silk band of bitterness was tightening\
round her throat, strangling. Beyond the plates, the ivory pink lamp,\
the broken pieces of bread, his face above the blank shirtfront jerked\
and nodded; the flush grew on his cheeks; his nose caught the light\
now on one side, now on the other, his taut lips moved eloquently over\
his yellow teeth. Ellen felt herself sitting with her ankles crossed,\
rigid as a porcelain figure under her clothes, everything about her\
seemed to be growing hard and enameled, the air bluestreaked with\
cigarettesmoke, was turning to glass. His wooden face of a marionette\
waggled senselessly in front of her. She shuddered and hunched up her\
shoulders.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, Elaine?\'94 he burst out. She lied:\
\
\'93Nothing George.... Somebody walked over my grave I guess.\'94\
\
\'93Couldnt I get you a wrap or something?\'94\
\
She shook her head.\
\
\'93Well what about it?\'94 he said as they got up from the table.\
\
\'93What?\'94 she asked smiling. \'93After Paris?\'94\
\
\'93I guess I can stand it if you can George,\'94 she said quietly.\
\
He was waiting for her, standing at the open door of a taxi. She saw\
him poised spry against the darkness in a tan felt hat and a light tan\
overcoat, smiling like some celebrity in the rotogravure section of a\
Sunday paper. Mechanically she squeezed the hand that helped her into\
the cab.\
\
\'93Elaine,\'94 he said shakily, \'93life\'92s going to mean something to me\
now.... God if you knew how empty life had been for so many years. I\'92ve\
been like a tin mechanical toy, all hollow inside.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s not talk about mechanical toys,\'94 she said in a strangled voice.\
\
\'93No let\'92s talk about our happiness,\'94 he shouted.\
\
Inexorably his lips closed on to hers. Beyond the shaking glass window\
of the taxi, like someone drowning, she saw out of a corner of an eye\
whirling faces, streetlights, zooming nickleglinting wheels.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
The old man in the checked cap sits on the brownstone stoop with his\
face in his hands. With the glare of Broadway in their backs there is\
a continual flickering of people past him towards the theaters down\
the street. The old man is sobbing through his fingers in a sour reek\
of gin. Once in a while he raises his head and shouts hoarsely, \'93I\
cant, dont you see I cant?\'94 The voice is inhuman like the splitting of\
a plank. Footsteps quicken. Middleaged people look the other way. Two\
girls giggle shrilly as they look at him. Streeturchins nudging each\
other peer in and out through the dark crowd. \'93Bum Hootch.\'94 \'93He\'92ll get\
his when the cop on the block comes by.\'94 \'93Prohibition liquor.\'94 The\
old man lifts his wet face out of his hands, staring out of sightless\
bloodyrimmed eyes. People back off, step on the feet of the people\
behind them. Like splintering wood the voice comes out of him. \'93Don\'92t\
you see I cant...? I cant ... I cant.\'94\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
When Alice Sheffield dropped into the stream of women going through\
the doors of Lord & Taylor\'92s and felt the close smell of stuffs in\
her nostrils something went click in her head. First she went to the\
glovecounter. The girl was very young and had long curved black lashes\
and a pretty smile; they talked of permanent waves while Alice tried on\
gray kids, white kids with a little fringe like a gauntlet. Before she\
tried it on, the girl deftly powdered the inside of each glove out of a\
longnecked wooden shaker. Alice ordered six pairs.\
\
\'93Yes, Mrs. Roy Sheffield.... Yes I have a charge account, here\'92s my\
card.... I\'92ll be having quite a lot of things sent.\'94 And to herself\
she said all the while: \'93Ridiculous how I\'92ve been going round in rags\
all winter.... When the bill comes Roy\'92ll have to find some way of\
paying it that\'92s all. Time he stopped mooning round anyway. I\'92ve paid\
enough bills for him in my time, God knows.\'94 Then she started looking\
at fleshcolored silk stockings. She left the store her head still in a\
whirl of long vistas of counters in a violet electric haze, of braided\
embroidery and tassles and nasturtiumtinted silks; she had ordered two\
summer dresses and an evening wrap.\
\
At Maillard\'92s she met a tall blond Englishman with a coneshaped head\
and pointed wisps of towcolored mustaches under his long nose.\
\
\'93Oh Buck I\'92m having the grandest time. I\'92ve been going berserk in Lord\
& Taylor\'92s. Do you know that it must be a year and a half since I\'92ve\
bought any clothes?\'94\
\
\'93Poor old thing,\'94 he said as he motioned her to a table. \'93Tell me about\
it.\'94\
\
She let herself flop into a chair suddenly whimpering, \'93Oh Buck I\'92m so\
tired of it all.... I dont know how much longer I can stand it.\'94\
\
\'93Well you cant blame me.... You know what I want you to do....\'94\
\
\'93Well suppose I did?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92d be topping, we\'92d hit it off like anything.... But you must have a\
bit of beef tea or something. You need picking up.\'94 She giggled. \'93You\
old dear that\'92s just what I do need.\'94\
\
\'93Well how about making tracks for Calgary? I know a fellow there who\'92ll\
give me a job I think.\'94\
\
\'93Oh let\'92s go right away. I dont care about clothes or anything.... Roy\
can send those things back to Lord & Taylor\'92s.... Got any money Buck?\'94\
\
A flush started on his cheekbones and spread over his temples to his\
flat irregular ears. \'93I confess, Al darling, that I havent a penny. I\
can pay for lunch.\'94\
\
\'93Oh hell I\'92ll cash a check; the account\'92s in both our names.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92ll cash it for me at the Biltmore, they know me there. When we\
get to Canada everything will be quite all right I can assure you. In\
His Majesty\'92s Dominion, the name of Buckminster has rather more weight\
than in the U.S.\'94\
\
\'93Oh I know darling, it\'92s nothing but money in New York.\'94\
\
When they were walking up Fifth Avenue she hooked her arm in his\
suddenly. \'93O Buck I have the most horrible thing to tell you. It made\
me deathly ill.... You know what I told you about the awful smell we\
had in the apartment we thought was rats? This morning I met the woman\
who lives on the ground floor.... O it makes me sick to think of it.\
Her face was green as that bus.... It seems they\'92ve been having the\
plumbing examined by an inspector.... They arrested the woman upstairs.\
O it\'92s too disgusting. I cant tell you about it.... I\'92ll never go back\
there. I\'92d die if I did.... There wasnt a drop of water in the house\
all day yesterday.\'94\
\
\'93What was the matter?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s too horrible.\'94\
\
\'93Tell it to popper.\'94\
\
\'93Buck they wont know you when you get back home to Orpen Manor.\'94\
\
\'93But what was it?\'94\
\
\'93There was a woman upstairs who did illegal operations, abortions....\
That was what stopped up the plumbing.\'94\
\
\'93Good God.\'94\
\
\'93Somehow that\'92s the last straw.... And Roy sitting limp over his\
damn paper in the middle of that stench with that horrible adenoid\
expression on his face.\'94\
\
\'93Poor little girl.\'94\
\
\'93But Buck I couldn\'92t cash a check for more than two hundred.... It\'92ll\
be an overdraft as it is. Will that get us to Calgary?\'94\
\
\'93Not very comfortably.... There\'92s a man I know in Montreal who\'92ll give\
me a job writing society notes.... Beastly thing to do, but I can use\
an assumed name. Then we can trot along from there when we get a little\
more spondulix as you call it.... How about cashing that check now?\'94\
\
She stood waiting for him beside the information desk while he went to\
get the tickets. She felt alone and tiny in the middle of the great\
white vault of the station. All her life with Roy was going by her like\
a movie reeled off backwards, faster and faster. Buck came back looking\
happy and masterful, his hands full of greenbacks and railway tickets.\
\'93No train till seven ten Al,\'94 he said. \'93Suppose you go to the Palace\
and leave me a seat at the boxoffice.... I\'92ll run up and fetch my kit.\
Wont take a sec.... Here\'92s a fiver.\'94 And he had gone, and she was\
walking alone across Fortythird Street on a hot May afternoon. For some\
reason she began to cry. People stared at her; she couldnt help it. She\
walked on doggedly with the tears streaming down her face.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Earthquake insurance, that\'92s what they calls it! A whole lot of good\
it\'92ll do \'92em when the anger of the Lord smokes out the city like you\
would a hornet\'92s nest and he picks it up and shakes it like a cat\
shakes a rat.... Earthquake insurance!\'94\
\
Joe and Skinny wished that the man with whiskers like a bottlecleaner\
who stood over their campfire mumbling and shouting would go away.\
They didn\'92t know whether he was talking to them or to himself. They\
pretended he wasnt there and went on nervously preparing to grill a\
piece of ham on a gridiron made of an old umbrellaframe. Below them\
beyond a sulphurgreen lace of budding trees was the Hudson going silver\
with evening and the white palisade of apartment-houses of upper\
Manhattan.\
\
\'93Dont say nutten,\'94 whispered Joe, making a swift cranking motion in the\
region of his ear. \'93He\'92s nuts.\'94\
\
Skinny had gooseflesh down the back, he felt his lips getting cold, he\
wanted to run.\
\
\'93That ham?\'94 Suddenly the man addressed them in a purring benevolent\
voice.\
\
\'93Yessir,\'94 said Joe shakily after a pause.\
\
\'93Dont you know that the Lord God forbad his chillun to eat the flesh of\
swine?\'94 His voice went to its singsong mumbling and shouting. \'93Gabriel,\
Brother Gabriel ... is it all right for these kids to eat ham?... Sure.\
The angel Gabriel, he\'92s a good frien o mine see, he said it\'92s all right\
this once if you dont do it no more.... Look out brother you\'92ll burn\
it.\'94 Skinny had got to his feet. \'93Sit down brother. I wont hurt you. I\
understand kids. We like kids me an the Lord God.... Scared of me cause\
I\'92m a tramp aint you? Well lemme tell you somethin, dont you never be\
afraid of a tramp. Tramps wont hurt ye, they\'92re good people. The Lord\
God was a tramp when he lived on earth. My buddy the angel Gabriel says\
he\'92s been a tramp many a time.... Look I got some fried chicken an old\
colored woman gave me.... O Lordy me!\'94 groaning he sat down on a rock\
beside the two boys.\
\
\'93We was goin to play injuns, but now I guess we\'92ll play tramps,\'94 said\
Joe warming up a little. The tramp brought a newspaper package out of\
the formless pocket of his weathergreened coat and began unwrapping it\
carefully. A good smell began to come from the sizzling ham. Skinny\
sat down again, still keeping as far away as he could without missing\
anything. The tramp divided up his chicken and they began to eat\
together.\
\
\'93Gabriel old scout will you just look at that?\'94 The tramp started\
his singsong shouting that made the boys feel scared again. It was\
beginning to get dark. The tramp was shouting with his mouth full\
pointing with a drumstick towards the flickering checkerboard of lights\
going on up Riverside Drive. \'93Juss set here a minute an look at her\
Gabriel.... Look at the old bitch if you\'92ll pardon the expression.\
Earthquake insurance, gosh they need it dont they? Do you know how long\
God took to destroy the tower of Babel, folks? Seven minutes. Do you\
know how long the Lord God took to destroy Babylon and Nineveh? Seven\
minutes. There\'92s more wickedness in one block in New York City than\
there was in a square mile in Nineveh, and how long do you think the\
Lord God of Sabboath will take to destroy New York City an Brooklyn\
an the Bronx? Seven seconds. Seven seconds.... Say kiddo what\'92s your\
name?\'94 He dropped into his low purring voice and made a pass at Joe\
with his drumstick.\
\
\'93Joseph Cameron Parker.... We live in Union.\'94\
\
\'93An what\'92s yours?\'94\
\
\'93Antonio Camerone ... de guys call me Skinny. Dis guy\'92s my cousin. His\
folks dey changed deir name to Parker, see?\'94\
\
\'93Changing your name wont do no good ... they got all the aliases down\
in the judgment book.... And verily I say unto you the Lord\'92s day is\
at hand.... It was only yesterday that Gabriel says to me \'91Well Jonah,\
shall we let her rip?\'92 an I says to him, \'91Gabriel ole scout think of\
the women and children an the little babies that dont know no better.\
If you shake it down with an earthquake an fire an brimstone from\
heaven they\'92ll all be killed same as the rich people an sinners,\'92 and\
he says to me, \'91All right Jonah old horse, have it your own way.... We\
wont foreclose on em for a week or two.\'92 ... But it\'92s terrible to think\
of, folks, the fire an brimstone an the earthquake an the tidal wave an\
the tall buildins crashing together.\'94\
\
Joe suddenly slapped Skinny on the back. \'93You\'92re it,\'94 he said and ran\
off. Skinny followed him stumbling along the narrow path among the\
bushes. He caught up to him on the asphalt. \'93Jez, that guy\'92s nuts,\'94 he\
called.\
\
\'93Shut up cant ye?\'94 snapped Joe. He was peering back through the\
bushes. They could still see the thin smoke of their little fire\
against the sky. The tramp was out of sight. They could just hear his\
voice calling, \'93Gabriel, Gabriel.\'94 They ran on breathless towards the\
regularly spaced safe arclights and the street.\
\
Jimmy Herf stepped out from in front of the truck; the mudguard\
just grazed the skirt of his raincoat. He stood a moment behind an\
L stanchion while the icicle thawed out of his spine. The door of a\
limousine suddenly opened in front of him and he heard a familiar voice\
that he couldnt place.\
\
\'93Jump in Meester \'92Erf.... Can I take you somewhere?\'94 As he stepped in\
mechanically he noticed that he was stepping into a Rolls-Royce.\
\
The stout redfaced man in a derby hat was Congo. \'93Sit down Meester\
\'92Erf.... Very pleas\'92 to see you. Where were you going?\'94\
\
\'93I wasnt going anywhere in particular.\'94 \'93Come up to the house, I want\
to show you someting. Ow are you today?\'94\
\
\'93Oh fine; no I mean I\'92m in a rotten mess, but it\'92s all the same.\'94\
\
\'93Tomorrow maybe I go to jail ... six mont\'92 ... but maybe not.\'94 Congo\
laughed in his throat and straightened carefully his artificial leg.\
\
\'93So they\'92ve nailed you at last, Congo?\'94\
\
\'93Conspiracy.... But no more Congo Jake, Meester \'92Erf. Call me Armand.\
I\'92m married now; Armand Duval, Park Avenue.\'94\
\
\'93How about the Marquis des Coulommiers?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s just for the trade.\'94\
\
\'93So things look pretty good do they?\'94\
\
Congo nodded. \'93If I go to Atlanta which I \'92ope not, in six mont\'92 I come\
out of jail a millionaire.... Meester \'92Erf if you need money, juss say\
the word.... I lend you tousand dollars. In five years even you pay it\
back. I know you.\'94\
\
\'93Thanks, it\'92s not exactly money I need, that\'92s the hell of it.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s your wife?... She\'92s so beautiful.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re getting a divorce.... She served the papers on me this\
morning.... That\'92s all I was waiting in this goddam town for.\'94\
\
Congo bit his lips. Then he tapped Jimmy gently on the knee with his\
forefinger. \'93In a minute we\'92ll get to the \'92ouse.... I give you one very\
good drink.\'94 ... \'93Yes wait\'94, Congo shouted to the chauffeur as he walked\
with a stately limp, leaning on a goldknobbed cane, into the streaky\
marble hallway of the apartmenthouse. As they went up in the elevator\
he said, \'93Maybe you stay to dinner.\'94 \'93I\'92m afraid I cant tonight, Con\
... Armand.\'94\
\
\'93I have one very good cook.... When I first come to New York maybe\
twenty years ago, there was a feller on the boat.... This is the door,\
see A. D., Armand Duval. Him and me ran away togedder an always he say\
to me, \'91Armand you never make a success, too lazy, run after the leetle\
girls too much....\'92 Now he\'92s my cook ... first class chef, cordon bleu,\
eh? Life is one funny ting, Meester \'92Erf.\'94\
\
\'93Gee this is fine,\'94 said Jimmy Herf leaning back in a highbacked\
Spanish chair in the blackwalnut library with a glass of old Bourbon in\
his hand. \'93Congo ... I mean Armand, if I\'92d been God and had to decide\
who in this city should make a million dollars and who shouldnt I swear\
you\'92re the man I should have picked.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe by and by the misses come in. Very pretty I show you.\'94 He made\
curly motions with his fingers round his head. \'93Very much blond hair.\'94\
Suddenly he frowned. \'93But Meester \'92Erf, if dere is anyting any time I\
can do for you, money or like dat, you let me know eh? It\'92s ten years\
now you and me very good frien.... One more drink?\'94\
\
On his third glass of Bourbon Herf began to talk. Congo sat listening\
with his heavy lips a little open, occasionally nodding his head. \'93The\
difference between you and me is that you\'92re going up in the social\
scale, Armand, and I\'92m going down.... When you were a messboy on a\
steamboat I was a horrid little chalkyfaced kid living at the Ritz.\
My mother and father did all this Vermont marble blackwalnut grand\
Babylonian stuff ... there\'92s nothing more for me to do about it....\
Women are like rats, you know, they leave a sinking ship. She\'92s going\
to marry this man Baldwin who\'92s just been appointed District Attorney.\
They\'92re said to be grooming him for mayor on a fusion reform ticket....\
The delusion of power, that\'92s what\'92s biting him. Women fall for it\
like hell. If I thought it\'92d be any good to me I swear I\'92ve got the\
energy to sit up and make a million dollars. But I get no organic\
sensation out of that stuff any more. I\'92ve got to have something new,\
different.... Your sons\'92ll be like that Congo.... If I\'92d had a decent\
education and started soon enough I might have been a great scientist.\
If I\'92d been a little more highly sexed I might have been an artist\
or gone in for religion.... But here I am by Jesus Christ almost\
thirty years old and very anxious to live.... If I were sufficiently\
romantic I suppose I\'92d have killed myself long ago just to make people\
talk about me. I havent even got the conviction to make a successful\
drunkard.\'94\
\
\'93Looks like,\'94 said Congo filling the little glasses again with a slow\
smile, \'93Meester \'92Erf you tink too much.\'94\
\
\'93Of course I do Congo, of course I do, but what the hell am I going to\
do about it?\'94\
\
\'93Well when you need a little money remember Armand Duval.... Want a\
chaser?\'94\
\
Herf shook his head. \'93I\'92ve got to chase myself.... So long Armand.\'94\
\
In the colonnaded marble hall he ran into Nevada Jones. She was wearing\
orchids. \'93Hullo Nevada, what are you doing in this palace of sin?\'94\
\
\'93I live here, what do you think?... I married a friend of yours the\
other day, Armand Duval. Want to come up and see him?\'94\
\
\'93Just been.... He\'92s a good scout.\'94\
\
\'93He sure is.\'94\
\
\'93What did you do with little Tony Hunter?\'94\
\
She came close to him and spoke in a low voice. \'93Just forget about me\
and him will you?... Gawd the boy\'92s breath\'92d knock you down.... Tony\'92s\
one of God\'92s mistakes, I\'92m through with him.... Found him chewing the\
edges of the rug rolling on the floor of the dressing room one day\
because he was afraid he was going to be unfaithful to me with an\
acrobat.... I told him he\'92d better go and be it and we busted up right\
there.... But honest I\'92m out for connubial bliss this time, right on\
the level, so for God\'92s sake dont let anybody spring anything about\
Tony or about Baldwin either on Armand ... though he knows he wasnt\
hitching up to any plaster virgin.... Why dont you come up and eat with\
us?\'94\
\
\'93I cant. Good luck Nevada.\'94 The whisky warm in his stomach, tingling\
in his fingers, Jimmy Herf stepped out into seven o\'92clock Park\
Avenue, whirring with taxicabs, streaked with smells of gasoline and\
restaurants and twilight.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
It was the first evening James Merivale had gone to the Metropolitan\
Club since he had been put up for it; he had been afraid, that like\
carrying a cane, it was a little old for him. He sat in a deep leather\
chair by a window smoking a thirtyfive cent cigar with the _Wall Street\
Journal_ on his knee and a copy of the _Cosmopolitan_ leaning against\
his right thigh and, with his eyes on the night flawed with lights like\
a crystal, he abandoned himself to reverie: Economic Depression....\
Ten million dollars.... After the war slump. Some smash I\'92ll tell the\
world. BLACKHEAD & DENSCH FAIL FOR $10,000,000.... Densch left the\
country some days ago.... Blackhead incommunicado in his home at Great\
Neck. One of the oldest and most respected import and export firms in\
New York, $10,000,000. _O it\'92s always fair weather When good fellows\
get together._ That\'92s the thing about banking. Even in a deficit\
there\'92s money to be handled, collateral. These commercial propositions\
always entail a margin of risk. We get \'92em coming or else we get \'92em\
going, eh Merivale? That\'92s what old Perkins said when Cunningham mixed\
him that Jack Rose.... _With a stein on the tabul And a good song\
ri-i-inging clear._ Good connection that feller. Maisie knew what\
she was doing after all.... A man in a position like that\'92s always\
likely to be blackmailed. A fool not to prosecute.... Girl\'92s crazy\
he said, married to another man of the same name.... Ought to be in\
a sanitarium, a case like that. God I\'92d have dusted his hide for him.\
Circumstances exonerated him completely, even mother admitted that.\
_O Sinbad was in bad in Tokio and Rome_ ... that\'92s what Jerry used to\
sing. Poor old Jerry never had the feeling of being in good right in on\
the ground floor of the Metropolitan Club.... Comes of poor stock. Take\
Jimmy now ... hasnt even that excuse, an out and out failure, a misfit\
from way back.... Guess old man Herf was pretty wild, a yachtsman. Used\
to hear mother say Aunt Lily had to put up with a whole lot. Still\
he might have made something of himself with all his advantages ...\
dreamer, wanderlust ... Greenwich Village stuff. And dad did every bit\
as much for him as he did for me.... And this divorce now. Adultery ...\
with a prostitute like as not. Probably had syphilis or something. Ten\
Million Dollar Failure.\
\
Failure. Success.\
\
Ten Million Dollar Success.... Ten Years of Successful Banking....\
At the dinner of the American Bankers Association last night James\
Merivale, president of the Bank & Trust Company, spoke in answer to\
the toast \'91Ten Years of Progressive Banking.\'92 ... Reminds me gentlemen\
of the old darky who was very fond of chicken.... But if you will\
allow me a few serious words on this festive occasion (flashlight\
photograph) there is a warning note I should like to sound ... feel it\
my duty as an American citizen, as president of a great institution of\
nationwide, international in the better sense, nay, universal contacts\
and loyalties (flashlight photograph).... At last making himself heard\
above the thunderous applause James Merivale, his stately steelgray\
head shaking with emotion, continued his speech.... Gentlemen you do me\
too much honor.... Let me only add that in all trials and tribulations,\
becalmed amid the dark waters of scorn or spurning the swift rapids\
of popular estimation, amid the still small hours of the night, and\
in the roar of millions at noonday, my staff, my bread of life, my\
inspiration has been my triune loyalty to my wife, my mother, and my\
flag.\
\
The long ash from his cigar had broken and fallen on his knees. James\
Merivale got to his feet and gravely brushed the light ash off his\
trousers. Then he settled down again and with an intent frown began to\
read the article on Foreign Exchange in the _Wall Street Journal_.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
They sit up on two stools in the lunchwaggon.\
\
\'93Say kid how the hell did you come to sign up on that old scow?\'94\
\
\'93Wasnt anything else going out east.\'94\
\
\'93Well you sure have dished your gravy this time kid, cap\'92n \'92s a\
dopehead, first officer\'92s the damnedest crook out o Sing Sing, crew\'92s a\
lot o bohunks, the ole tub aint worth the salvage of her.... What was\
your last job?\'94\
\
\'93Night clerk in a hotel.\'94\
\
\'93Listen to that cookey ... Jesus Kerist Amighty look at a guy who\'92ll\
give up a good job clerkin in a swell hotel in Noo York City to sign\
on as messboy on Davy Jones\'92 own steam yacht.... A fine seacook\
you\'92re goin to make.\'94 The younger man is flushing. \'93How about that\
Hamburgher?\'94 he shouts at the counterman.\
\
After they have eaten, while they are finishing their coffee, he\
turns to his friend and asks in a low voice, \'93Say Rooney was you ever\
overseas ... in the war?\'94\
\
\'93I made Saint Nazaire a couple o times. Why?\'94\
\
\'93I dunno.... It kinder gave me the itch.... I was two years in it.\
Things aint been the same. I used to think all I wanted was to get a\
good job an marry an settle down, an now I dont give a damn.... I can\
keep a job for six months or so an then I get the almighty itch, see?\
So I thought I ought to see the orient a bit....\'94\
\
\'93Never you mind,\'94 says Rooney shaking his head. \'93You\'92re goin to see it,\
dont you worry about that.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the damage?\'94 the young man asks the counterman.\
\
\'93They must a caught you young.\'94\
\
\'93I was sixteen when I enlisted.\'94 He picks up his change and follows\
Rooney\'92s broad shambling back into the street. At the end of the\
street, beyond trucks and the roofs of warehouses, he can see masts and\
the smoke of steamers and white steam rising into the sunlight.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93Pull down the shade,\'94 comes the man\'92s voice from the bed.\
\
\'93I cant, it\'92s busted.... Oh hell, here\'92s the whole business down.\'94 Anna\
almost bursts out crying when the roll hits her in the face, \'93You fix\
it,\'94 she says going towards the bed.\
\
\'93What do I care, they cant see in,\'94 says the man catching hold of her\
laughing.\
\
\'93It\'92s just those lights,\'94 she moans, wearily letting herself go limp in\
his arms.\
\
It is a small room the shape of a shoebox with an iron bed in the\
corner of the wall opposite the window. A roar of streets rises to it\
rattling up a V shaped recess in the building. On the ceiling she can\
see the changing glow of electric signs along Broadway, white, red,\
green, then a jumble like a bubble bursting, and again white, red,\
green.\
\
\'93Oh Dick I wish you\'92d fix that shade, those lights give me the willies.\'94\
\
\'93The lights are all right Anna, it\'92s like bein in a theater.... It\'92s\
the Gay White Way, like they used to say.\'94\
\
\'93That stuff\'92s all right for you out of town fellers, but it gives me\
the willies.\'94\
\
\'93So you\'92re workin for Madame Soubrine now are you Anna?\'94\
\
\'93You mean I\'92m scabbin.... I know it. The old woman trew me out an it\
was get a job or croak....\'94\
\
\'93A nice girl like you Anna could always find a boyfriend.\'94\
\
\'93God you buyers are a dirty lot.... You think that because I\'92ll go with\
you, I\'92d go wid anybody.... Well I wouldnt, do you get that?\'94\
\
\'93I didnt mean that Anna.... Gee you\'92re awful quick tonight.\'94\
\
\'93I guess it\'92s my nerves.... This strike an the old woman trowin me out\
an scabbin up at Soubrine\'92s ... it\'92d get anybody\'92s goat. They can all\
go to hell for all I care. Why wont they leave you alone? I never did\
nothin to hurt anybody in my life. All I want is for em to leave me\
alone an let me get my pay an have a good time now and then.... God\
Dick it\'92s terrible.... I dont dare go out on the street for fear of\
meetin some of the girls of my old local.\'94\
\
\'93Hell Anna, things aint so bad, honest I\'92d take you West with me if it\
wasnt for my wife.\'94\
\
Anna\'92s voice goes on in an even whimper, \'93An now \'92cause I take a shine\
to you and want to give you a good time you call me a goddam whore.\'94\
\
\'93I didnt say no such thing. I didnt even think it. All I thought was\
that you was a dead game sport and not a kewpie above the ears like\
most of \'92em.... Look if it\'92ll make ye feel better I\'92ll try an fix that\
shade.\'94\
\
Lying on her side she watches his heavy body move against the milky\
light of the window. At last his teeth chattering he comes back to her.\
\'93I cant fix the goddam thing.... Kerist it\'92s cold.\'94\
\
\'93Never mind Dick, come on to bed.... It must be late. I got to be up\
there at eight.\'94\
\
He pulls his watch from under the pillow. \'93It\'92s half after two....\
Hello kitten.\'94\
\
On the ceiling she can see reflected the changing glare of the electric\
signs, white, red, green, then a jumble like a bubble bursting, then\
again white, green, red.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
\'93An he didn\'92t even invite me to the wedding.... Honestly Florence I\
could have forgiven him if he\'92d invited me to the wedding,\'94 she said\
to the colored maid when she brought in the coffee. It was a Sunday\
morning. She was sitting up in bed with the papers spread over her lap.\
She was looking at a photograph in a rotogravure section labeled Mr.\
and Mrs. Jack Cunningham Hop Off for the First Lap of Their Honeymoon\
on his Sensational Seaplane Albatross VII. \'93He looks handsome dont he?\'94\
\
\'93He su\'92 is miss.... But wasn\'92t there anything you could do to stop \'92em,\
miss?\'94\
\
\'93Not a thing.... You see he said he\'92d have me committed to an asylum if\
I tried.... He knows perfectly well a Yucatan divorce isn\'92t legal.\'94\
\
Florence sighed.\
\
\'93Menfolks su\'92 do dirt to us poor girls.\'94\
\
\'93Oh this wont last long. You can see by her face she\'92s a nasty selfish\
spoiled little girl.... And I\'92m his real wife before God and man. Lord\
knows I tried to warn her. Whom God has joined let no man put asunder\
... that\'92s in the Bible isnt it?... Florence this coffee is simply\
terrible this morning. I cant drink it. You go right out and make me\
some fresh.\'94\
\
Frowning and hunching her shoulders Florence went out the door with the\
tray.\
\
Mrs. Cunningham heaved a deep sigh and settled herself among the\
pillows. Outside churchbells were ringing. \'93Oh Jack you darling I\
love you just the same,\'94 she said to the picture. Then she kissed it.\
\'93Listen, deary the churchbells sounded like that the day we ran away\
from the High School Prom and got married in Milwaukee.... It was a\
lovely Sunday morning.\'94 Then she stared in the face of the second Mrs.\
Cunningham. \'93Oh you,\'94 she said and poked her finger through it.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
When she got to her feet she found that the courtroom was very slowly\
sickeningly going round and round; the white fishfaced judge with\
noseglasses, faces, cops, uniformed attendants, gray windows, yellow\
desks, all going round and round in the sickening close smell, her\
lawyer with his white hawk nose, wiping his bald head, frowning, going\
round and round until she thought she would throw up. She couldn\'92t\
hear a word that was said, she kept blinking to get the blur out of her\
ears. She could feel Dutch behind her hunched up with his head in his\
hands. She didnt dare look back. Then after hours everything was sharp\
and clear, very far away. The judge was shouting at her, from the small\
end of a funnel his colorless lips moving in and out like the mouth of\
a fish.\
\
\'93... And now as a man and a citizen of this great city I want to say\
a few words to the defendants. Briefly this sort of thing has got to\
stop. The unalienable rights of human life and property the great men\
who founded this republic laid down in the constitootion have got to be\
reinstated. It is the dooty of every man in office and out of office to\
combat this wave of lawlessness by every means in his power. Therefore\
in spite of what those sentimental newspaper writers who corrupt the\
public mind and put into the head of weaklings and misfits of your\
sort the idea that you can buck the law of God and man, and private\
property, that you can wrench by force from peaceful citizens what they\
have earned by hard work and brains ... and get away with it; in spite\
of what these journalistic hacks and quacks would call extentuating\
circumstances I am going to impose on you two highwaymen the maximum\
severity of the law. It is high time an example was made....\'94\
\
The judge took a drink of water. Francie could see the little beads of\
sweat standing out from the pores of his nose.\
\
\'93It is high time an example was made,\'94 the judge shouted. \'93Not that\
I dont feel as a tender and loving father the misfortunes, the lack\
of education and ideels, the lack of a loving home and tender care of\
a mother that has led this young woman into a life of immorality and\
misery, led away by the temptations of cruel and voracious men and\
the excitement and wickedness of what has been too well named, the\
jazz age. Yet at the moment when these thoughts are about to temper\
with mercy the stern anger of the law, the importunate recollection\
rises of other young girls, perhaps hundreds of them at this moment\
in this great city about to fall into the clutches of a brutal and\
unscrupulous tempter like this man Robertson ... for him and his ilk\
there is no punishment sufficiently severe ... and I remember that\
mercy misplaced is often cruelty in the long run. All we can do is shed\
a tear for erring womanhood and breathe a prayer for the innocent babe\
that this unfortunate girl has brought into the world as the fruit of\
her shame....\'94\
\
Francie felt a cold tingling that began at her fingertips and ran up\
her arms into the blurred whirling nausea of her body. \'93Twenty years,\'94\
she could hear the whisper round the court, they all seemed licking\
their lips whispering softly \'93Twenty years.\'94 \'93I guess I\'92m going to\
faint,\'94 she said to herself as if to a friend. Everything went crashing\
black.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Propped with five pillows in the middle of his wide colonial mahogany\
bed with pineapples on the posts Phineas P. Blackhead his face purple\
as his silk dressing gown sat up and cursed. The big mahogany-finished\
bedroom hung with Javanese print cloth instead of wallpaper was empty\
except for a Hindu servant in a white jacket and turban who stood at\
the foot of the bed, with his hands at his sides, now and then bowing\
his head at a louder gust of cursing and saying \'93Yes, Sahib, yes,\
Sahib.\'94\
\
\'93By the living almighty Jingo you goddam yellow Babu bring me that\
whiskey, or I\'92ll get up and break every bone in your body, do you hear,\
Jesus God cant I be obeyed in my own house? When I say whiskey I mean\
rye not orange juice. Damnation. Here take it!\'94 He picked up a cutglass\
pitcher off the nighttable and slung it at the Hindu. Then he sank back\
on the pillows, saliva bubbling on his lips, choking for breath.\
\
Silently the Hindu mopped up the thick Beluchistan rug and slunk out\
of the room with a pile of broken glass in his hand. Blackhead was\
breathing more easily, his eyes sank into their deep sockets and were\
lost in the folds of sagged green lids.\
\
He seemed asleep when Gladys came in wearing a raincoat with a wet\
umbrella in her hand. She tiptoed to the window and stood looking\
out at the gray rainy street and the old tomblike brownstone houses\
opposite. For a splinter of a second she was a little girl come in her\
nightgown to have Sunday morning breakfast with daddy in his big bed.\
\
He woke up with a start, looked about him with bloodshot eyes, the\
heavy muscles of his jowl tightening under the ghastly purplish skin.\
\
\'93Well Gladys where\'92s that rye whiskey I ordered?\'94\
\
\'93Oh daddy you know what Dr. Thom said.\'94\
\
\'93He said it\'92d kill me if I took another drink.... Well I\'92m not dead yet\
am I? He\'92s a damned ass.\'94\
\
\'93Oh but you must take care of yourself and not get all excited.\'94 She\
kissed him and put a cool slim hand on his forehead.\
\
\'93Havent I got reason to get excited? If I had my hands on that dirty\
lilylivered bastard\'92s neck.... We\'92d have pulled through if he hadnt\
lost his nerve. Serve me right for taking such a yellow sop into\
partnership.... Twentyfive, thirty years of work all gone to hell\
in ten minutes.... For twentyfive years my word\'92s been as good as a\
banknote. Best thing for me to do\'92s to follow the firm to Tophet, to\
hell with me. And by the living Jingo you, my own flesh, tell me not\
to drink.... God almighty. Hay Bob.... Bob.... Where\'92s that goddam\
officeboy gone? Hay come here one of you sons of bitches, what do you\
think I pay you for?\'94\
\
A nurse put her head in the door.\
\
\'93Get out of here,\'94 shouted Blackhead, \'93none of your starched virgins\
around me.\'94 He threw the pillow from under his head. The nurse\
disappeared. The pillow hit one of the posts and bounced back on the\
bed. Gladys began to cry.\
\
\'93Oh daddy I cant stand it ... and everybody always respected you so....\
Do try to control yourself, daddy dear.\'94\
\
\'93And why should I for Christ\'92s sake...? Show\'92s over, why dont you\
laugh? Curtain\'92s down. It\'92s all a joke, a smutty joke.\'94\
\
He began to laugh deliriously, then he was choking, fighting for breath\
with clenched fists again. At length he said in a broken voice, \'93Don\'92t\
you see that it\'92s only the whiskey that was keeping me going? Go away\
and leave me Gladys and send that damned Hindu to me. I\'92ve always liked\
you better than anything in the world.... You know that. Quick tell him\
to bring me what I ordered.\'94\
\
Gladys went out crying. Outside her husband was pacing up and down the\
hall. \'93It\'92s those damned reporters ... I dont know what to tell \'92em.\
They say the creditors want to prosecute.\'94\
\
\'93Mrs. Gaston,\'94 interrupted the nurse, \'93I\'92m afraid you\'92ll have to get\
male nurses.... Really I cant do anything with him....\'94 On the lower\
floor a telephone was ringing, ringing.\
\
When the Hindu brought the bottle of whiskey Blackhead filled a\
highball glass and took a deep gulp of it.\
\
\'93Ah that makes you feel better, by the living Jingo it does. Achmet\
you\'92re a good fellow.... Well I guess we\'92ll have to face the music and\
sell out.... Thank God Gladys is settled. I\'92ll sell out every goddam\
thing I\'92ve got. I wish that precious son-in-law wasnt such a simp.\
Always my luck to be surrounded by a lot of capons.... By gad I\'92d just\
as soon go to jail if it\'92ll do em any good; why not? it\'92s all in a\
lifetime. And afterwards when I come out I\'92ll get a job as a bargeman\
or watchman on a wharf. I\'92d like that. Why not take it easy after\
tearing things up all my life, eh Achmet?\'94\
\
\'93Yes Sahib,\'94 said the Hindu with a bow.\
\
Blackhead mimicked him, \'93Yes Sahib.... You always say yes, Achmet,\
isn\'92t that funny?\'94 He began to laugh with a choked rattling laugh. \'93I\
guess that\'92s the easiest way.\'94 He laughed and laughed, then suddenly he\
couldnt laugh any more. A perking spasm went through all his limbs. He\
twisted his mouth in an effort to speak. For a second his eyes looked\
about the room, the eyes of a little child that has been hurt before\
it begins to cry, until he fell back limp, his open mouth biting at\
his shoulder. Achmet looked at him coolly for a long time then he went\
up to him and spat in his face. Immediately he took a handkerchief out\
of the pocket of his linen jacket and wiped the spittle off the taut\
ivory skin. Then he closed the mouth and propped the body among the\
pillows and walked softly out of the room. In the hall Gladys sat in a\
big chair reading a magazine. \'93Sahib much better, he sleep a little bit\
maybe.\'94\
\
\'93Oh Achmet I\'92m so glad,\'94 she said and looked back to her magazine.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Ellen got off the bus at the corner of Fifth Avenue and Fiftythird\
Street. Rosy twilight was gushing out of the brilliant west, glittered\
in brass and nickel, on buttons, in people\'92s eyes. All the windows on\
the east side of the avenue were aflame. As she stood with set teeth\
on the curb waiting to cross, a frail tendril of fragrance brushed her\
face. A skinny lad with towhair stringy under a foreignlooking cap was\
offering her arbutus in a basket. She bought a bunch and pressed her\
nose in it. May woods melted like sugar against her palate.\
\
The whistle blew, gears ground as cars started to pour out of the side\
streets, the crossing thronged with people. Ellen felt the lad brush\
against her as he crossed at her side. She shrank away. Through the\
smell of the arbutus she caught for a second the unwashed smell of his\
body, the smell of immigrants, of Ellis Island, of crowded tenements.\
Under all the nickelplated, goldplated streets enameled with May,\
uneasily she could feel the huddling smell, spreading in dark slow\
crouching masses like corruption oozing from broken sewers, like a mob.\
She walked briskly down the cross-street. She went in a door beside a\
small immaculately polished brass plate.\
\
                            MADAME SOUBRINE\
                                 ROBES\
\
She forgot everything in the catlike smile of Madame Soubrine herself,\
a stout blackhaired perhaps Russian woman who came out to her from\
behind a curtain with outstretched arms, while other customers waiting\
on sofas in a sort of Empress Josephine parlor, looked on enviously.\
\
\'93My dear Mrs. Herf, where have you been? We\'92ve had your dress for a\
week,\'94 she exclaimed in too perfect English. \'93Ah my dear, you wait ...\
it\'92s magnificent.... And how is Mr. Harrpiscourt?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been very busy.... You see I\'92m giving up my job.\'94\
\
Madame Soubrine nodded and blinked knowingly and led the way through\
the tapestry curtains into the back of the shop.\
\
\'93Ah \'e7a se voit.... Il ne faut pas trravailler, on peut voir dej\'e0\
des toutes petites rrides. Mais ils dispareaitront. Forgive me,\
dear.\'94 The thick arm round her waist squeezed her. Ellen edged off a\
little.... \'93Vous la femme la plus belle de New Yorrk.... Angelica Mrs.\
Herf\'92s evening dress,\'94 she shouted in a shrill grating voice like a\
guineahen\'92s.\
\
A hollowcheeked washedout blond girl came in with the dress on a\
hanger. Ellen slipped off her gray tailored walkingsuit. Madame\
Soubrine circled round her, purring. \'93Angelica look at those shoulders,\
the color of the hair.... Ah c\'92est le r\'eave,\'94 edging a little too near\
like a cat that wants its back rubbed. The dress was pale green with a\
slash of scarlet and dark blue.\
\
\'93This is the last time I have a dress like this, I\'92m sick of always\
wearing blue and green....\'94 Madame Soubrine, her mouth full of pins,\
was at her feet, fussing with the hem.\
\
\'93Perfect Greek simplicity, wellgirdled like Diana.... Spiritual with\
Spring ... the ultimate restraint of an Annette Kellermann, holding up\
the lamp of liberty, the wise virgin,\'94 she was muttering through her\
pins.\
\
She\'92s right, Ellen was thinking, I am getting a hard look. She was\
looking at herself in the tall pierglass. Then my figure\'92ll go, the\
menopause haunting beauty parlors, packed in boncilla, having your face\
raised.\
\
\'93Regardez-moi \'e7a, cherrie;\'94 said the dressmaker getting to her feet and\
taking the pins out of her mouth \'93C\'92est le chef-d\'9cuvre de la maison\
Soubrine.\'94\
\
Ellen suddenly felt hot, tangled in some prickly web, a horrible\
stuffiness of dyed silks and cr\'eapes and muslins was making her head\
ache; she was anxious to be out on the street again.\
\
\'93I smell smoke, there\'92s something the matter,\'94 the blond girl suddenly\
cried out. \'93Sh-sh-sh,\'94 hissed Madame Soubrine. They both disappeared\
through a mirrorcovered door.\
\
Under a skylight in the back room of Soubrine\'92s Anna Cohen sits sewing\
the trimming on a dress with swift tiny stitches. On the table in front\
of her a great pile of tulle rises full of light like beaten white\
of egg. _Charley my boy, Oh Charley my boy_, she hums, stitching the\
future with swift tiny stitches. If Elmer wants to marry me we might\
as well; poor Elmer, he\'92s a nice boy but so dreamy. Funny he\'92d fall\
for a girl like me. He\'92ll grow out of it, or maybe in the Revolution,\
he\'92ll be a great man.... Have to cut out parties when I\'92m Elmer\'92s wife.\
But maybe we can save up money and open a little store on Avenue A in\
a good location, make better money there than uptown. La Parisienne,\
Modes.\
\
I bet I could do as good as that old bitch. If you was your own boss\
there wouldn\'92t be this fightin about strikers and scabs.... Equal\
Opportunity for All. Elmer says that\'92s all applesauce. No hope for\
the workers but in the Revolution. _Oh I\'92m juss wild about Harree,\
And Harry\'92s juss wild about me._... Elmer in a telephone central in\
a dinnercoat, with eartabs, tall as Valentino, strong as Doug. The\
Revolution is declared. The Red Guard is marching up Fifth Avenue.\
Anna in golden curls with a little kitten under her arm leans with\
him out of the tallest window. White tumbler pigeons flutter against\
the city below them. Fifth Avenue bleeding red flags, glittering with\
marching bands, hoarse voices singing Die Rote Fahne in Yiddish; far\
away, from the Woolworth a banner shakes into the wind. \'91Look Elmer\
darling\'92 ELMER DUSKIN FOR MAYOR. And they\'92re dancing the Charleston in\
all the officebuildings.... _Thump. Thump. That Charleston dance....\
Thump. Thump._... Perhaps I do love him. Elmer take me. Elmer, loving\
as Valentino, crushing me to him with Doug-strong arms, hot as flame,\
Elmer.\
\
Through the dream she is stitching white fingers beckon. The white\
tulle shines too bright. Red hands clutch suddenly out of the tulle,\
she cant fight off the red tulle all round her biting into her, coiled\
about her head. The skylight\'92s blackened with swirling smoke. The\
room\'92s full of smoke and screaming. Anna is on her feet whirling round\
fighting with her hands the burning tulle all round her.\
\
Ellen stands looking at herself in the pierglass in the fitting room.\
The smell of singed fabrics gets stronger. After walking to and fro\
nervously a little while she goes through the glass door, down a\
passage hung with dresses, ducks under a cloud of smoke, and sees\
through streaming eyes the big workroom, screaming girls huddling\
behind Madame Soubrine, who is pointing a chemical extinguisher at\
charred piles of goods about a table. They are picking something\
moaning out of the charred goods. Out of the corner of her eye she sees\
an arm in shreds, a seared black red face, a horrible naked head.\
\
\'93Oh Mrs. Herf, please tell them in front it\'92s nothing, absolutely\
nothing.... I\'92ll be there at once,\'94 Madame Soubrine shrieks\
breathlessly at her. Ellen runs with closed eyes through the\
smokefilled corridor into the clean air of the fitting room, then, when\
her eyes have stopped running, she goes through the curtains to the\
agitated women in the waiting room.\
\
\'93Madame Soubrine asked me to tell everybody it was nothing, absolutely\
nothing. Just a little blaze in a pile of rubbish.... She put it out\
herself with an extinguisher.\'94\
\
\'93Nothing, absolutely nothing,\'94 the women say one to another settling\
back onto the Empress Josephine sofas.\
\
Ellen goes out to the street. The fireengines are arriving. Policemen\
are beating back the crowds. She wants to go away but she cant,\
she\'92s waiting for something. At last she hears it tinkling down the\
street. As the fireengines go clanging away, the ambulance drives up.\
Attendants carry in the folded stretcher. Ellen can hardly breathe.\
She stands beside the ambulance behind a broad blue policeman. She\
tries to puzzle out why she is so moved; it is as if some part of her\
were going to be wrapped in bandages, carried away on a stretcher. Too\
soon it comes out, between the routine faces, the dark uniforms of the\
attendants.\
\
\'93Was she terribly burned?\'94 somehow she manages to ask under the\
policeman\'92s arm.\
\
\'93She wont die ... but it\'92s tough on a girl.\'94 Ellen elbows her way\
through the crowd and hurries towards Fifth Avenue. It\'92s almost dark.\
Lights swim brightly in night clear blue like the deep sea.\
\
Why should I be so excited? she keeps asking herself. Just somebody\'92s\
bad luck, the sort of thing that happens every day. The moaning turmoil\
and the clanging of the fireengines wont seem to fade away inside\
her. She stands irresolutely on a corner while cars, faces, flicker\
clatteringly past her. A young man in a new straw hat is looking at her\
out of the corners of his eyes, trying to pick her up. She stares him\
blankly in the face. He has on a red, green, and blue striped necktie.\
She walks past him fast, crosses to the other side of the avenue, and\
turns uptown. Seven thirty. She\'92s got to meet some one somewhere, she\
cant think where. There\'92s a horrible tired blankness inside her. O dear\
what shall I do? she whimpers to herself. At the next corner she hails\
a taxi. \'93Go to the Algonquin please.\'94\
\
She remembers it all now, at eight o\'92clock she\'92s going to have dinner\
with Judge Shammeyer and his wife. Ought to have gone home to dress.\
George\'92ll be mad when he sees me come breezing in like this. Likes to\
show me off all dressed up like a Christmas tree, like an Effenbee\
walking talking doll, damn him.\
\
She sits back in the corner of the taxi with her eyes closed. Relax,\
she must let herself relax more. Ridiculous to go round always keyed up\
so that everything is like chalk shrieking on a blackboard. Suppose I\'92d\
been horribly burned, like that girl, disfigured for life. Probably she\
can get a lot of money out of old Soubrine, the beginning of a career.\
Suppose I\'92d gone with that young man with the ugly necktie who tried to\
pick me up.... Kidding over a banana split in a soda fountain, riding\
uptown and then down again on the bus, with his knee pressing my knee\
and his arm round my waist, a little heavy petting in a doorway....\
There are lives to be lived if only you didn\'92t care. Care for what, for\
what; the opinion of mankind, money, success, hotel lobbies, health,\
umbrellas, Uneeda biscuits...? It\'92s like a busted mechanical toy the\
way my mind goes brrr all the time. I hope they havent ordered dinner.\
I\'92ll make them go somewhere else if they havent. She opens her vanity\
case and begins to powder her nose.\
\
When the taxi stops and the tall doorman opens the door, she steps\
out with dancing pointed girlish steps, pays, and turns, her cheeks a\
little flushed, her eyes sparkling with the glinting seablue night of\
deep streets, into the revolving doors.\
\
As she goes through the shining soundless revolving doors, that spin\
before her gloved hand touches the glass, there shoots through her\
a sudden pang of something forgotten. Gloves, purse, vanity case,\
handkerchief, I have them all. Didn\'92t have an umbrella. What did I\
forget in the taxicab? But already she is advancing smiling towards\
two gray men in black with white shirtfronts getting to their feet,\
smiling, holding out their hands.\
\
       *       *       *       *       *\
\
Bob Hildebrand in dressing gown and pyjamas walked up and down in\
front of the long windows smoking a pipe. Through the sliding doors\
into the front came a sound of glasses tinkling and shuffling feet and\
laughing and _Running Wild_ grating hazily out of a blunt needle on the\
phonograph.\
\
\'93Why dont you park here for the night?\'94 Hildebrand was saying in his\
deep serious voice. \'93Those people\'92ll fade out gradually.... We can put\
you up on the couch.\'94\
\
\'93No thanks,\'94 said Jimmy. \'93They\'92ll start talking psychoanalysis in a\
minute and they\'92ll be here till dawn.\'94\
\
\'93But you\'92d much better take a morning train.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not going to take any kind of a train.\'94\
\
\'93Say Herf did you read about the man in Philadelphia who was killed\
because he wore his straw hat on the fourteenth of May?\'94\
\
\'93By God if I was starting a new religion he\'92d be made a saint.\'94\
\
\'93Didnt you read about it? It was funny as a crutch.... This man had the\
temerity to defend his straw hat. Somebody had busted it and he started\
to fight, and in the middle of it one of these streetcorner heroes came\
up behind him and brained him with a piece of lead pipe. They picked\
him up with a cracked skull and he died in the hospital.\'94\
\
\'93Bob what was his name?\'94\
\
\'93I didnt notice.\'94\
\
\'93Talk about the Unknown Soldier.... That\'92s a real hero for you; the\
golden legend of the man who would wear a straw hat out of season.\'94\
\
A head was stuck between the double doors. A flushfaced man with his\
hair over his eyes looked in. \'93Cant I bring you fellers a shot of\
gin.... Whose funeral is being celebrated anyway?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to bed, no gin for me,\'94 said Hildebrand grouchily.\
\
\'93It\'92s the funeral of Saint Aloysius of Philadelphia, virgin and martyr,\
the man who would wear a straw hat out of season,\'94 said Herf. \'93I might\
sniff a little gin. I\'92ve got to run in a minute.... So long Bob.\'94\
\
\'93So long you mysterious traveler.... Let us have your address, do you\
hear?\'94\
\
The long front room was full of ginbottles, gingerale bottles, ashtrays\
crowded with half smoked cigarettes, couples dancing, people sprawled\
on sofas. Endlessly the phonograph played _Lady ... lady be good_. A\
glass of gin was pushed into Herf\'92s hand. A girl came up to him.\
\
\'93We\'92ve been talking about you.... Did you know you were a man of\
mystery?\'94\
\
\'93Jimmy,\'94 came a shrill drunken voice, \'93you\'92re suspected of being the\
bobhaired bandit.\'94\
\
\'93Why dont you take up a career of crime, Jimmy?\'94 said the girl putting\
her arm round his waist. \'93I\'92ll come to your trial, honest I will.\'94\
\
\'93How do you know I\'92m not?\'94\
\
\'93You see,\'94 said Frances Hildebrand, who was bringing a bowl of cracked\
ice in from the kitchenette, \'93there is something mysterious going on.\'94\
\
Herf took the hand of the girl beside him and made her dance with\
him. She kept stumbling over his feet. He danced her round until he\
was opposite to the halldoor; he opened the door and foxtrotted her\
out into the hall. Mechanically she put up her mouth to be kissed. He\
kissed her quickly and reached for his hat. \'93Good night,\'94 he said. The\
girl started to cry.\
\
Out in the street he took a deep breath. He felt happy, much more happy\
than Greenwich Village kisses. He was reaching for his watch when he\
remembered he had pawned it.\
\
The golden legend of the man who would wear a straw hat out of season.\
Jimmy Herf is walking west along Twentythird Street, laughing to\
himself. Give me liberty, said Patrick Henry, putting on his straw hat\
on the first of May, or give me death. And he got it. There are no\
trollycars, occasionally a milkwagon clatters by, the heartbroken brick\
houses of Chelsea are dark.... A taxi passes trailing a confused noise\
of singing. At the corner of Ninth Avenue he notices two eyes like\
holes in a trianglewhite of paper, a woman in a raincoat beckons to him\
from a doorway. Further on two English sailors are arguing in drunken\
cockney. The air becomes milky with fog as he nears the river. He can\
hear the great soft distant lowing of steamboats.\
\
He sits a long time waiting for a ferry in the seedy ruddy-lighted\
waiting room. He sits smoking happily. He cant seem to remember\
anything, there is no future but the foggy river and the ferry looming\
big with its lights in a row like a darky\'92s smile. He stands with his\
hat off at the rail and feels the riverwind in his hair. Perhaps he\'92s\
gone crazy, perhaps this is amnesia, some disease with a long Greek\
name, perhaps they\'92ll find him picking dewberries in the Hoboken Tube.\
He laughs aloud so that the old man who came to open the gates gave\
him a sudden sidelong look. Cookoo, bats in the belfry, that\'92s what\
he\'92s saying to himself. Maybe he\'92s right. By gum if I were a painter,\
maybe they\'92ll let me paint in the nuthouse, I\'92d do Saint Aloysius of\
Philadelphia with a straw hat on his head instead of a halo and in\
his hand the lead pipe, instrument of his martyrdom, and a little me\
praying at his feet. The only passenger on the ferry, he roams round as\
if he owned it. My temporary yacht. By Jove these are the doldrums of\
the night all right, he mutters. He keeps trying to explain his gayety\
to himself. It\'92s not that I\'92m drunk. I may be crazy, but I dont think\
so....\
\
Before the ferry leaves a horse and wagon comes aboard, a brokendown\
springwagon loaded with flowers, driven by a little brown man with high\
cheekbones. Jimmy Herf walks round it; behind the drooping horse with\
haunches like a hatrack the little warped wagon is unexpectedly merry,\
stacked with pots of scarlet and pink geraniums, carnations, alyssum,\
forced roses, blue lobelia. A rich smell of maytime earth comes from\
it, of wet flowerpots and greenhouses. The driver sits hunched with his\
hat over his eyes. Jimmy has an impulse to ask him where he is going\
with all those flowers, but he stifles it and walks to the front of the\
ferry.\
\
Out of the empty dark fog of the river, the ferryslip yawns all of a\
sudden, a black mouth with a throat of light. Herf hurries through\
cavernous gloom and out to a fog-blurred street. Then he is walking\
up an incline. There are tracks below him and the slow clatter of\
a freight, the hiss of an engine. At the top of a hill he stops to\
look back. He can see nothing but fog spaced with a file of blurred\
arclights. Then he walks on, taking pleasure in breathing, in the\
beat of his blood, in the tread of his feet on the pavement, between\
rows of otherworldly frame houses. Gradually the fog thins, a morning\
pearliness is seeping in from somewhere.\
\
Sunrise finds him walking along a cement road between dumping grounds\
full of smoking rubbishpiles. The sun shines redly through the mist on\
rusty donkeyengines, skeleton trucks, wishbones of Fords, shapeless\
masses of corroding metal. Jimmy walks fast to get out of the smell. He\
is hungry; his shoes are beginning to raise blisters on his big toes.\
At a cross-road where the warning light still winks and winks, is a\
gasoline station, opposite it the Lightning Bug lunchwagon. Carefully\
he spends his last quarter on breakfast. That leaves him three cents\
for good luck, or bad for that matter. A huge furniture truck, shiny\
and yellow, has drawn up outside.\
\
\'93Say will you give me a lift?\'94 he asks the redhaired man at the wheel.\
\
\'93How fur ye goin?\'94\
\
\'93I dunno.... Pretty far.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                                THE END\
}