{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2865
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28260\viewh15600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
                           The Great Gatsby\
                                  by\
                          F. Scott Fitzgerald\
\
\
                           Table of Contents\
\
I\
II\
III\
IV\
V\
VI\
VII\
VIII\
IX\
\
\
                              Once again\
                                  to\
                                 Zelda\
\
\
  Then wear the gold hat, if that will move her;\
  If you can bounce high, bounce for her too,\
  Till she cry \'93Lover, gold-hatted, high-bouncing lover,\
  I must have you!\'94\
\
  Thomas Parke d\'92Invilliers\
\
\
                                  I\
\
In my younger and more vulnerable years my father gave me some advice\
that I\'92ve been turning over in my mind ever since.\
\
\'93Whenever you feel like criticizing anyone,\'94 he told me, \'93just\
remember that all the people in this world haven\'92t had the advantages\
that you\'92ve had.\'94\
\
He didn\'92t say any more, but we\'92ve always been unusually communicative\
in a reserved way, and I understood that he meant a great deal more\
than that. In consequence, I\'92m inclined to reserve all judgements, a\
habit that has opened up many curious natures to me and also made me\
the victim of not a few veteran bores. The abnormal mind is quick to\
detect and attach itself to this quality when it appears in a normal\
person, and so it came about that in college I was unjustly accused of\
being a politician, because I was privy to the secret griefs of wild,\
unknown men. Most of the confidences were unsought\'97frequently I have\
feigned sleep, preoccupation, or a hostile levity when I realized by\
some unmistakable sign that an intimate revelation was quivering on\
the horizon; for the intimate revelations of young men, or at least\
the terms in which they express them, are usually plagiaristic and\
marred by obvious suppressions. Reserving judgements is a matter of\
infinite hope. I am still a little afraid of missing something if I\
forget that, as my father snobbishly suggested, and I snobbishly\
repeat, a sense of the fundamental decencies is parcelled out\
unequally at birth.\
\
And, after boasting this way of my tolerance, I come to the admission\
that it has a limit. Conduct may be founded on the hard rock or the\
wet marshes, but after a certain point I don\'92t care what it\'92s founded\
on. When I came back from the East last autumn I felt that I wanted\
the world to be in uniform and at a sort of moral attention forever; I\
wanted no more riotous excursions with privileged glimpses into the\
human heart. Only Gatsby, the man who gives his name to this book, was\
exempt from my reaction\'97Gatsby, who represented everything for which I\
have an unaffected scorn. If personality is an unbroken series of\
successful gestures, then there was something gorgeous about him, some\
heightened sensitivity to the promises of life, as if he were related\
to one of those intricate machines that register earthquakes ten\
thousand miles away. This responsiveness had nothing to do with that\
flabby impressionability which is dignified under the name of the\
\'93creative temperament\'94\'97it was an extraordinary gift for hope, a\
romantic readiness such as I have never found in any other person and\
which it is not likely I shall ever find again. No\'97Gatsby turned out\
all right at the end; it is what preyed on Gatsby, what foul dust\
floated in the wake of his dreams that temporarily closed out my\
interest in the abortive sorrows and short-winded elations of men.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
My family have been prominent, well-to-do people in this Middle\
Western city for three generations. The Carraways are something of a\
clan, and we have a tradition that we\'92re descended from the Dukes of\
Buccleuch, but the actual founder of my line was my grandfather\'92s\
brother, who came here in fifty-one, sent a substitute to the Civil\
War, and started the wholesale hardware business that my father\
carries on today.\
\
I never saw this great-uncle, but I\'92m supposed to look like him\'97with\
special reference to the rather hard-boiled painting that hangs in\
father\'92s office. I graduated from New Haven in 1915, just a quarter of\
a century after my father, and a little later I participated in that\
delayed Teutonic migration known as the Great War. I enjoyed the\
counter-raid so thoroughly that I came back restless. Instead of being\
the warm centre of the world, the Middle West now seemed like the\
ragged edge of the universe\'97so I decided to go East and learn the bond\
business. Everybody I knew was in the bond business, so I supposed it\
could support one more single man. All my aunts and uncles talked it\
over as if they were choosing a prep school for me, and finally said,\
\'93Why\'97ye-es,\'94 with very grave, hesitant faces. Father agreed to finance\
me for a year, and after various delays I came East, permanently, I\
thought, in the spring of twenty-two.\
\
The practical thing was to find rooms in the city, but it was a warm\
season, and I had just left a country of wide lawns and friendly\
trees, so when a young man at the office suggested that we take a\
house together in a commuting town, it sounded like a great idea. He\
found the house, a weather-beaten cardboard bungalow at eighty a\
month, but at the last minute the firm ordered him to Washington, and\
I went out to the country alone. I had a dog\'97at least I had him for a\
few days until he ran away\'97and an old Dodge and a Finnish woman, who\
made my bed and cooked breakfast and muttered Finnish wisdom to\
herself over the electric stove.\
\
It was lonely for a day or so until one morning some man, more\
recently arrived than I, stopped me on the road.\
\
\'93How do you get to West Egg village?\'94 he asked helplessly.\
\
I told him. And as I walked on I was lonely no longer. I was a guide,\
a pathfinder, an original settler. He had casually conferred on me the\
freedom of the neighbourhood.\
\
And so with the sunshine and the great bursts of leaves growing on the\
trees, just as things grow in fast movies, I had that familiar\
conviction that life was beginning over again with the summer.\
\
There was so much to read, for one thing, and so much fine health to\
be pulled down out of the young breath-giving air. I bought a dozen\
volumes on banking and credit and investment securities, and they\
stood on my shelf in red and gold like new money from the mint,\
promising to unfold the shining secrets that only Midas and Morgan and\
Maecenas knew. And I had the high intention of reading many other\
books besides. I was rather literary in college\'97one year I wrote a\
series of very solemn and obvious editorials for the Yale News\'97and now\
I was going to bring back all such things into my life and become\
again that most limited of all specialists, the \'93well-rounded man.\'94\
This isn\'92t just an epigram\'97life is much more successfully looked at\
from a single window, after all.\
\
It was a matter of chance that I should have rented a house in one of\
the strangest communities in North America. It was on that slender\
riotous island which extends itself due east of New York\'97and where\
there are, among other natural curiosities, two unusual formations of\
land. Twenty miles from the city a pair of enormous eggs, identical in\
contour and separated only by a courtesy bay, jut out into the most\
domesticated body of salt water in the Western hemisphere, the great\
wet barnyard of Long Island Sound. They are not perfect ovals\'97like the\
egg in the Columbus story, they are both crushed flat at the contact\
end\'97but their physical resemblance must be a source of perpetual\
wonder to the gulls that fly overhead. To the wingless a more\
interesting phenomenon is their dissimilarity in every particular\
except shape and size.\
\
I lived at West Egg, the\'97well, the less fashionable of the two, though\
this is a most superficial tag to express the bizarre and not a little\
sinister contrast between them. My house was at the very tip of the\
egg, only fifty yards from the Sound, and squeezed between two huge\
places that rented for twelve or fifteen thousand a season. The one on\
my right was a colossal affair by any standard\'97it was a factual\
imitation of some H\'f4tel de Ville in Normandy, with a tower on one\
side, spanking new under a thin beard of raw ivy, and a marble\
swimming pool, and more than forty acres of lawn and garden. It was\
Gatsby\'92s mansion. Or, rather, as I didn\'92t know Mr. Gatsby, it was a\
mansion inhabited by a gentleman of that name. My own house was an\
eyesore, but it was a small eyesore, and it had been overlooked, so I\
had a view of the water, a partial view of my neighbour\'92s lawn, and\
the consoling proximity of millionaires\'97all for eighty dollars a\
month.\
\
Across the courtesy bay the white palaces of fashionable East Egg\
glittered along the water, and the history of the summer really begins\
on the evening I drove over there to have dinner with the Tom\
Buchanans. Daisy was my second cousin once removed, and I\'92d known Tom\
in college. And just after the war I spent two days with them in\
Chicago.\
\
Her husband, among various physical accomplishments, had been one of\
the most powerful ends that ever played football at New Haven\'97a\
national figure in a way, one of those men who reach such an acute\
limited excellence at twenty-one that everything afterward savours of\
anticlimax. His family were enormously wealthy\'97even in college his\
freedom with money was a matter for reproach\'97but now he\'92d left Chicago\
and come East in a fashion that rather took your breath away: for\
instance, he\'92d brought down a string of polo ponies from Lake\
Forest. It was hard to realize that a man in my own generation was\
wealthy enough to do that.\
\
Why they came East I don\'92t know. They had spent a year in France for\
no particular reason, and then drifted here and there unrestfully\
wherever people played polo and were rich together. This was a\
permanent move, said Daisy over the telephone, but I didn\'92t believe\
it\'97I had no sight into Daisy\'92s heart, but I felt that Tom would drift\
on forever seeking, a little wistfully, for the dramatic turbulence of\
some irrecoverable football game.\
\
And so it happened that on a warm windy evening I drove over to East\
Egg to see two old friends whom I scarcely knew at all. Their house\
was even more elaborate than I expected, a cheerful red-and-white\
Georgian Colonial mansion, overlooking the bay. The lawn started at\
the beach and ran towards the front door for a quarter of a mile,\
jumping over sundials and brick walks and burning gardens\'97finally when\
it reached the house drifting up the side in bright vines as though\
from the momentum of its run. The front was broken by a line of French\
windows, glowing now with reflected gold and wide open to the warm\
windy afternoon, and Tom Buchanan in riding clothes was standing with\
his legs apart on the front porch.\
\
He had changed since his New Haven years. Now he was a sturdy\
straw-haired man of thirty, with a rather hard mouth and a\
supercilious manner. Two shining arrogant eyes had established\
dominance over his face and gave him the appearance of always leaning\
aggressively forward. Not even the effeminate swank of his riding\
clothes could hide the enormous power of that body\'97he seemed to fill\
those glistening boots until he strained the top lacing, and you could\
see a great pack of muscle shifting when his shoulder moved under his\
thin coat. It was a body capable of enormous leverage\'97a cruel body.\
\
His speaking voice, a gruff husky tenor, added to the impression of\
fractiousness he conveyed. There was a touch of paternal contempt in\
it, even toward people he liked\'97and there were men at New Haven who\
had hated his guts.\
\
\'93Now, don\'92t think my opinion on these matters is final,\'94 he seemed to\
say, \'93just because I\'92m stronger and more of a man than you are.\'94 We\
were in the same senior society, and while we were never intimate I\
always had the impression that he approved of me and wanted me to like\
him with some harsh, defiant wistfulness of his own.\
\
We talked for a few minutes on the sunny porch.\
\
\'93I\'92ve got a nice place here,\'94 he said, his eyes flashing about\
restlessly.\
\
Turning me around by one arm, he moved a broad flat hand along the\
front vista, including in its sweep a sunken Italian garden, a half\
acre of deep, pungent roses, and a snub-nosed motorboat that bumped\
the tide offshore.\
\
\'93It belonged to Demaine, the oil man.\'94 He turned me around again,\
politely and abruptly. \'93We\'92ll go inside.\'94\
\
We walked through a high hallway into a bright rosy-coloured space,\
fragilely bound into the house by French windows at either end. The\
windows were ajar and gleaming white against the fresh grass outside\
that seemed to grow a little way into the house. A breeze blew through\
the room, blew curtains in at one end and out the other like pale\
flags, twisting them up toward the frosted wedding-cake of the\
ceiling, and then rippled over the wine-coloured rug, making a shadow\
on it as wind does on the sea.\
\
The only completely stationary object in the room was an enormous\
couch on which two young women were buoyed up as though upon an\
anchored balloon. They were both in white, and their dresses were\
rippling and fluttering as if they had just been blown back in after a\
short flight around the house. I must have stood for a few moments\
listening to the whip and snap of the curtains and the groan of a\
picture on the wall. Then there was a boom as Tom Buchanan shut the\
rear windows and the caught wind died out about the room, and the\
curtains and the rugs and the two young women ballooned slowly to the\
floor.\
\
The younger of the two was a stranger to me. She was extended full\
length at her end of the divan, completely motionless, and with her\
chin raised a little, as if she were balancing something on it which\
was quite likely to fall. If she saw me out of the corner of her eyes\
she gave no hint of it\'97indeed, I was almost surprised into murmuring\
an apology for having disturbed her by coming in.\
\
The other girl, Daisy, made an attempt to rise\'97she leaned slightly\
forward with a conscientious expression\'97then she laughed, an absurd,\
charming little laugh, and I laughed too and came forward into the\
room.\
\
\'93I\'92m p-paralysed with happiness.\'94\
\
She laughed again, as if she said something very witty, and held my\
hand for a moment, looking up into my face, promising that there was\
no one in the world she so much wanted to see. That was a way she\
had. She hinted in a murmur that the surname of the balancing girl was\
Baker. (I\'92ve heard it said that Daisy\'92s murmur was only to make people\
lean toward her; an irrelevant criticism that made it no less\
charming.)\
\
At any rate, Miss Baker\'92s lips fluttered, she nodded at me almost\
imperceptibly, and then quickly tipped her head back again\'97the object\
she was balancing had obviously tottered a little and given her\
something of a fright. Again a sort of apology arose to my lips.\
Almost any exhibition of complete self-sufficiency draws a stunned\
tribute from me.\
\
I looked back at my cousin, who began to ask me questions in her low,\
thrilling voice. It was the kind of voice that the ear follows up and\
down, as if each speech is an arrangement of notes that will never be\
played again. Her face was sad and lovely with bright things in it,\
bright eyes and a bright passionate mouth, but there was an excitement\
in her voice that men who had cared for her found difficult to forget:\
a singing compulsion, a whispered \'93Listen,\'94 a promise that she had\
done gay, exciting things just a while since and that there were gay,\
exciting things hovering in the next hour.\
\
I told her how I had stopped off in Chicago for a day on my way East,\
and how a dozen people had sent their love through me.\
\
\'93Do they miss me?\'94 she cried ecstatically.\
\
\'93The whole town is desolate. All the cars have the left rear wheel\
painted black as a mourning wreath, and there\'92s a persistent wail all\
night along the north shore.\'94\
\
\'93How gorgeous! Let\'92s go back, Tom. Tomorrow!\'94 Then she added\
irrelevantly: \'93You ought to see the baby.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s asleep. She\'92s three years old. Haven\'92t you ever seen her?\'94\
\
\'93Never.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you ought to see her. She\'92s\'97\'94\
\
Tom Buchanan, who had been hovering restlessly about the room, stopped\
and rested his hand on my shoulder.\
\
\'93What you doing, Nick?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m a bond man.\'94\
\
\'93Who with?\'94\
\
I told him.\
\
\'93Never heard of them,\'94 he remarked decisively.\
\
This annoyed me.\
\
\'93You will,\'94 I answered shortly. \'93You will if you stay in the East.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I\'92ll stay in the East, don\'92t you worry,\'94 he said, glancing at\
Daisy and then back at me, as if he were alert for something\
more. \'93I\'92d be a God damned fool to live anywhere else.\'94\
\
At this point Miss Baker said: \'93Absolutely!\'94 with such suddenness that\
I started\'97it was the first word she had uttered since I came into the\
room. Evidently it surprised her as much as it did me, for she yawned\
and with a series of rapid, deft movements stood up into the room.\
\
\'93I\'92m stiff,\'94 she complained, \'93I\'92ve been lying on that sofa for as long\
as I can remember.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t look at me,\'94 Daisy retorted, \'93I\'92ve been trying to get you to\
New York all afternoon.\'94\
\
\'93No, thanks,\'94 said Miss Baker to the four cocktails just in from the\
pantry. \'93I\'92m absolutely in training.\'94\
\
Her host looked at her incredulously.\
\
\'93You are!\'94 He took down his drink as if it were a drop in the bottom\
of a glass. \'93How you ever get anything done is beyond me.\'94\
\
I looked at Miss Baker, wondering what it was she \'93got done.\'94 I\
enjoyed looking at her. She was a slender, small-breasted girl, with\
an erect carriage, which she accentuated by throwing her body backward\
at the shoulders like a young cadet. Her grey sun-strained eyes looked\
back at me with polite reciprocal curiosity out of a wan, charming,\
discontented face. It occurred to me now that I had seen her, or a\
picture of her, somewhere before.\
\
\'93You live in West Egg,\'94 she remarked contemptuously. \'93I know somebody\
there.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know a single\'97\'94\
\
\'93You must know Gatsby.\'94\
\
\'93Gatsby?\'94 demanded Daisy. \'93What Gatsby?\'94\
\
Before I could reply that he was my neighbour dinner was announced;\
wedging his tense arm imperatively under mine, Tom Buchanan compelled\
me from the room as though he were moving a checker to another square.\
\
Slenderly, languidly, their hands set lightly on their hips, the two\
young women preceded us out on to a rosy-coloured porch, open toward\
the sunset, where four candles flickered on the table in the\
diminished wind.\
\
\'93Why candles?\'94 objected Daisy, frowning. She snapped them out with her\
fingers. \'93In two weeks it\'92ll be the longest day in the year.\'94 She\
looked at us all radiantly. \'93Do you always watch for the longest day\
of the year and then miss it? I always watch for the longest day in\
the year and then miss it.\'94\
\
\'93We ought to plan something,\'94 yawned Miss Baker, sitting down at the\
table as if she were getting into bed.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 said Daisy. \'93What\'92ll we plan?\'94 She turned to me\
helplessly: \'93What do people plan?\'94\
\
Before I could answer her eyes fastened with an awed expression on her\
little finger.\
\
\'93Look!\'94 she complained; \'93I hurt it.\'94\
\
We all looked\'97the knuckle was black and blue.\
\
\'93You did it, Tom,\'94 she said accusingly. \'93I know you didn\'92t mean to,\
but you did do it. That\'92s what I get for marrying a brute of a man, a\
great, big, hulking physical specimen of a\'97\'94\
\
\'93I hate that word \'91hulking,\'92\uc0\u8202 \'94 objected Tom crossly, \'93even in\
kidding.\'94\
\
\'93Hulking,\'94 insisted Daisy.\
\
Sometimes she and Miss Baker talked at once, unobtrusively and with a\
bantering inconsequence that was never quite chatter, that was as cool\
as their white dresses and their impersonal eyes in the absence of all\
desire. They were here, and they accepted Tom and me, making only a\
polite pleasant effort to entertain or to be entertained. They knew\
that presently dinner would be over and a little later the evening too\
would be over and casually put away. It was sharply different from the\
West, where an evening was hurried from phase to phase towards its\
close, in a continually disappointed anticipation or else in sheer\
nervous dread of the moment itself.\
\
\'93You make me feel uncivilized, Daisy,\'94 I confessed on my second glass\
of corky but rather impressive claret. \'93Can\'92t you talk about crops or\
something?\'94\
\
I meant nothing in particular by this remark, but it was taken up in\
an unexpected way.\
\
\'93Civilization\'92s going to pieces,\'94 broke out Tom violently. \'93I\'92ve\
gotten to be a terrible pessimist about things. Have you read The Rise\
of the Coloured Empires by this man Goddard?\'94\
\
\'93Why, no,\'94 I answered, rather surprised by his tone.\
\
\'93Well, it\'92s a fine book, and everybody ought to read it. The idea is\
if we don\'92t look out the white race will be\'97will be utterly\
submerged. It\'92s all scientific stuff; it\'92s been proved.\'94\
\
\'93Tom\'92s getting very profound,\'94 said Daisy, with an expression of\
unthoughtful sadness. \'93He reads deep books with long words in\
them. What was that word we\'97\'94\
\
\'93Well, these books are all scientific,\'94 insisted Tom, glancing at her\
impatiently. \'93This fellow has worked out the whole thing. It\'92s up to\
us, who are the dominant race, to watch out or these other races will\
have control of things.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve got to beat them down,\'94 whispered Daisy, winking ferociously\
toward the fervent sun.\
\
\'93You ought to live in California\'97\'94 began Miss Baker, but Tom\
interrupted her by shifting heavily in his chair.\
\
\'93This idea is that we\'92re Nordics. I am, and you are, and you are,\
and\'97\'94 After an infinitesimal hesitation he included Daisy with a\
slight nod, and she winked at me again. \'93\'97And we\'92ve produced all the\
things that go to make civilization\'97oh, science and art, and all\
that. Do you see?\'94\
\
There was something pathetic in his concentration, as if his\
complacency, more acute than of old, was not enough to him any more.\
When, almost immediately, the telephone rang inside and the butler\
left the porch Daisy seized upon the momentary interruption and leaned\
towards me.\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you a family secret,\'94 she whispered enthusiastically.\
\'93It\'92s about the butler\'92s nose. Do you want to hear about the butler\'92s\
nose?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s why I came over tonight.\'94\
\
\'93Well, he wasn\'92t always a butler; he used to be the silver polisher\
for some people in New York that had a silver service for two hundred\
people. He had to polish it from morning till night, until finally it\
began to affect his nose\'97\'94\
\
\'93Things went from bad to worse,\'94 suggested Miss Baker.\
\
\'93Yes. Things went from bad to worse, until finally he had to give up\
his position.\'94\
\
For a moment the last sunshine fell with romantic affection upon her\
glowing face; her voice compelled me forward breathlessly as I\
listened\'97then the glow faded, each light deserting her with lingering\
regret, like children leaving a pleasant street at dusk.\
\
The butler came back and murmured something close to Tom\'92s ear,\
whereupon Tom frowned, pushed back his chair, and without a word went\
inside. As if his absence quickened something within her, Daisy leaned\
forward again, her voice glowing and singing.\
\
\'93I love to see you at my table, Nick. You remind me of a\'97of a rose, an\
absolute rose. Doesn\'92t he?\'94 She turned to Miss Baker for confirmation:\
\'93An absolute rose?\'94\
\
This was untrue. I am not even faintly like a rose. She was only\
extemporizing, but a stirring warmth flowed from her, as if her heart\
was trying to come out to you concealed in one of those breathless,\
thrilling words. Then suddenly she threw her napkin on the table and\
excused herself and went into the house.\
\
Miss Baker and I exchanged a short glance consciously devoid of\
meaning. I was about to speak when she sat up alertly and said \'93Sh!\'94\
in a warning voice. A subdued impassioned murmur was audible in the\
room beyond, and Miss Baker leaned forward unashamed, trying to\
hear. The murmur trembled on the verge of coherence, sank down,\
mounted excitedly, and then ceased altogether.\
\
\'93This Mr. Gatsby you spoke of is my neighbour\'97\'94 I began.\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk. I want to hear what happens.\'94\
\
\'93Is something happening?\'94 I inquired innocently.\
\
\'93You mean to say you don\'92t know?\'94 said Miss Baker, honestly surprised.\
\'93I thought everybody knew.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Why\'97\'94 she said hesitantly. \'93Tom\'92s got some woman in New York.\'94\
\
\'93Got some woman?\'94 I repeated blankly.\
\
Miss Baker nodded.\
\
\'93She might have the decency not to telephone him at dinner time.\
Don\'92t you think?\'94\
\
Almost before I had grasped her meaning there was the flutter of a\
dress and the crunch of leather boots, and Tom and Daisy were back at\
the table.\
\
\'93It couldn\'92t be helped!\'94 cried Daisy with tense gaiety.\
\
She sat down, glanced searchingly at Miss Baker and then at me, and\
continued: \'93I looked outdoors for a minute, and it\'92s very romantic\
outdoors. There\'92s a bird on the lawn that I think must be a\
nightingale come over on the Cunard or White Star Line. He\'92s singing\
away\'97\'94 Her voice sang: \'93It\'92s romantic, isn\'92t it, Tom?\'94\
\
\'93Very romantic,\'94 he said, and then miserably to me: \'93If it\'92s light\
enough after dinner, I want to take you down to the stables.\'94\
\
The telephone rang inside, startlingly, and as Daisy shook her head\
decisively at Tom the subject of the stables, in fact all subjects,\
vanished into air. Among the broken fragments of the last five minutes\
at table I remember the candles being lit again, pointlessly, and I\
was conscious of wanting to look squarely at everyone, and yet to\
avoid all eyes. I couldn\'92t guess what Daisy and Tom were thinking, but\
I doubt if even Miss Baker, who seemed to have mastered a certain\
hardy scepticism, was able utterly to put this fifth guest\'92s shrill\
metallic urgency out of mind. To a certain temperament the situation\
might have seemed intriguing\'97my own instinct was to telephone\
immediately for the police.\
\
The horses, needless to say, were not mentioned again. Tom and Miss\
Baker, with several feet of twilight between them, strolled back into\
the library, as if to a vigil beside a perfectly tangible body, while,\
trying to look pleasantly interested and a little deaf, I followed\
Daisy around a chain of connecting verandas to the porch in front. In\
its deep gloom we sat down side by side on a wicker settee.\
\
Daisy took her face in her hands as if feeling its lovely shape, and\
her eyes moved gradually out into the velvet dusk. I saw that\
turbulent emotions possessed her, so I asked what I thought would be\
some sedative questions about her little girl.\
\
\'93We don\'92t know each other very well, Nick,\'94 she said suddenly. \'93Even\
if we are cousins. You didn\'92t come to my wedding.\'94\
\
\'93I wasn\'92t back from the war.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s true.\'94 She hesitated. \'93Well, I\'92ve had a very bad time, Nick,\
and I\'92m pretty cynical about everything.\'94\
\
Evidently she had reason to be. I waited but she didn\'92t say any more,\
and after a moment I returned rather feebly to the subject of her\
daughter.\
\
\'93I suppose she talks, and\'97eats, and everything.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes.\'94 She looked at me absently. \'93Listen, Nick; let me tell you\
what I said when she was born. Would you like to hear?\'94\
\
\'93Very much.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92ll show you how I\'92ve gotten to feel about\'97things. Well, she was\
less than an hour old and Tom was God knows where. I woke up out of\
the ether with an utterly abandoned feeling, and asked the nurse right\
away if it was a boy or a girl. She told me it was a girl, and so I\
turned my head away and wept. \'91All right,\'92 I said, \'91I\'92m glad it\'92s a\
girl. And I hope she\'92ll be a fool\'97that\'92s the best thing a girl can be\
in this world, a beautiful little fool.\'92\
\
\'93You see I think everything\'92s terrible anyhow,\'94 she went on in a\
convinced way. \'93Everybody thinks so\'97the most advanced people. And I\
know. I\'92ve been everywhere and seen everything and done everything.\'94\
Her eyes flashed around her in a defiant way, rather like Tom\'92s, and\
she laughed with thrilling scorn. \'93Sophisticated\'97God, I\'92m\
sophisticated!\'94\
\
The instant her voice broke off, ceasing to compel my attention, my\
belief, I felt the basic insincerity of what she had said. It made me\
uneasy, as though the whole evening had been a trick of some sort to\
exact a contributory emotion from me. I waited, and sure enough, in a\
moment she looked at me with an absolute smirk on her lovely face, as\
if she had asserted her membership in a rather distinguished secret\
society to which she and Tom belonged.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
Inside, the crimson room bloomed with light. Tom and Miss Baker sat at\
either end of the long couch and she read aloud to him from the\
Saturday Evening Post\'97the words, murmurous and uninflected, running\
together in a soothing tune. The lamplight, bright on his boots and\
dull on the autumn-leaf yellow of her hair, glinted along the paper as\
she turned a page with a flutter of slender muscles in her arms.\
\
When we came in she held us silent for a moment with a lifted hand.\
\
\'93To be continued,\'94 she said, tossing the magazine on the table, \'93in\
our very next issue.\'94\
\
Her body asserted itself with a restless movement of her knee, and she\
stood up.\
\
\'93Ten o\'92clock,\'94 she remarked, apparently finding the time on the\
ceiling. \'93Time for this good girl to go to bed.\'94\
\
\'93Jordan\'92s going to play in the tournament tomorrow,\'94 explained Daisy,\
\'93over at Westchester.\'94\
\
\'93Oh\'97you\'92re Jordan Baker.\'94\
\
I knew now why her face was familiar\'97its pleasing contemptuous\
expression had looked out at me from many rotogravure pictures of the\
sporting life at Asheville and Hot Springs and Palm Beach. I had heard\
some story of her too, a critical, unpleasant story, but what it was I\
had forgotten long ago.\
\
\'93Good night,\'94 she said softly. \'93Wake me at eight, won\'92t you.\'94\
\
\'93If you\'92ll get up.\'94\
\
\'93I will. Good night, Mr. Carraway. See you anon.\'94\
\
\'93Of course you will,\'94 confirmed Daisy. \'93In fact I think I\'92ll arrange a\
marriage. Come over often, Nick, and I\'92ll sort of\'97oh\'97fling you\
together. You know\'97lock you up accidentally in linen closets and push\
you out to sea in a boat, and all that sort of thing\'97\'94\
\
\'93Good night,\'94 called Miss Baker from the stairs. \'93I haven\'92t heard a\
word.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s a nice girl,\'94 said Tom after a moment. \'93They oughtn\'92t to let\
her run around the country this way.\'94\
\
\'93Who oughtn\'92t to?\'94 inquired Daisy coldly.\
\
\'93Her family.\'94\
\
\'93Her family is one aunt about a thousand years old. Besides, Nick\'92s\
going to look after her, aren\'92t you, Nick? She\'92s going to spend lots\
of weekends out here this summer. I think the home influence will be\
very good for her.\'94\
\
Daisy and Tom looked at each other for a moment in silence.\
\
\'93Is she from New York?\'94 I asked quickly.\
\
\'93From Louisville. Our white girlhood was passed together there. Our\
beautiful white\'97\'94\
\
\'93Did you give Nick a little heart to heart talk on the veranda?\'94\
demanded Tom suddenly.\
\
\'93Did I?\'94 She looked at me. \'93I can\'92t seem to remember, but I think we\
talked about the Nordic race. Yes, I\'92m sure we did. It sort of crept\
up on us and first thing you know\'97\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t believe everything you hear, Nick,\'94 he advised me.\
\
I said lightly that I had heard nothing at all, and a few minutes\
later I got up to go home. They came to the door with me and stood\
side by side in a cheerful square of light. As I started my motor\
Daisy peremptorily called: \'93Wait!\
\
\'93I forgot to ask you something, and it\'92s important. We heard you were\
engaged to a girl out West.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s right,\'94 corroborated Tom kindly. \'93We heard that you were\
engaged.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a libel. I\'92m too poor.\'94\
\
\'93But we heard it,\'94 insisted Daisy, surprising me by opening up again\
in a flower-like way. \'93We heard it from three people, so it must be\
true.\'94\
\
Of course I knew what they were referring to, but I wasn\'92t even\
vaguely engaged. The fact that gossip had published the banns was one\
of the reasons I had come East. You can\'92t stop going with an old\
friend on account of rumours, and on the other hand I had no intention\
of being rumoured into marriage.\
\
Their interest rather touched me and made them less remotely\
rich\'97nevertheless, I was confused and a little disgusted as I drove\
away. It seemed to me that the thing for Daisy to do was to rush out\
of the house, child in arms\'97but apparently there were no such\
intentions in her head. As for Tom, the fact that he \'93had some woman\
in New York\'94 was really less surprising than that he had been\
depressed by a book. Something was making him nibble at the edge of\
stale ideas as if his sturdy physical egotism no longer nourished his\
peremptory heart.\
\
Already it was deep summer on roadhouse roofs and in front of wayside\
garages, where new red petrol-pumps sat out in pools of light, and\
when I reached my estate at West Egg I ran the car under its shed and\
sat for a while on an abandoned grass roller in the yard. The wind had\
blown off, leaving a loud, bright night, with wings beating in the\
trees and a persistent organ sound as the full bellows of the earth\
blew the frogs full of life. The silhouette of a moving cat wavered\
across the moonlight, and, turning my head to watch it, I saw that I\
was not alone\'97fifty feet away a figure had emerged from the shadow of\
my neighbour\'92s mansion and was standing with his hands in his pockets\
regarding the silver pepper of the stars. Something in his leisurely\
movements and the secure position of his feet upon the lawn suggested\
that it was Mr. Gatsby himself, come out to determine what share was\
his of our local heavens.\
\
I decided to call to him. Miss Baker had mentioned him at dinner, and\
that would do for an introduction. But I didn\'92t call to him, for he\
gave a sudden intimation that he was content to be alone\'97he stretched\
out his arms toward the dark water in a curious way, and, far as I was\
from him, I could have sworn he was trembling. Involuntarily I glanced\
seaward\'97and distinguished nothing except a single green light, minute\
and far away, that might have been the end of a dock. When I looked\
once more for Gatsby he had vanished, and I was alone again in the\
unquiet darkness.\
\
\
                                  II\
\
About halfway between West Egg and New York the motor road hastily\
joins the railroad and runs beside it for a quarter of a mile, so as\
to shrink away from a certain desolate area of land. This is a valley\
of ashes\'97a fantastic farm where ashes grow like wheat into ridges and\
hills and grotesque gardens; where ashes take the forms of houses and\
chimneys and rising smoke and, finally, with a transcendent effort, of\
ash-grey men, who move dimly and already crumbling through the powdery\
air. Occasionally a line of grey cars crawls along an invisible track,\
gives out a ghastly creak, and comes to rest, and immediately the\
ash-grey men swarm up with leaden spades and stir up an impenetrable\
cloud, which screens their obscure operations from your sight.\
\
But above the grey land and the spasms of bleak dust which drift\
endlessly over it, you perceive, after a moment, the eyes of Doctor T.\
J. Eckleburg. The eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg are blue and\
gigantic\'97their retinas are one yard high. They look out of no face,\
but, instead, from a pair of enormous yellow spectacles which pass\
over a nonexistent nose. Evidently some wild wag of an oculist set\
them there to fatten his practice in the borough of Queens, and then\
sank down himself into eternal blindness, or forgot them and moved\
away. But his eyes, dimmed a little by many paintless days, under sun\
and rain, brood on over the solemn dumping ground.\
\
The valley of ashes is bounded on one side by a small foul river, and,\
when the drawbridge is up to let barges through, the passengers on\
waiting trains can stare at the dismal scene for as long as half an\
hour. There is always a halt there of at least a minute, and it was\
because of this that I first met Tom Buchanan\'92s mistress.\
\
The fact that he had one was insisted upon wherever he was known. His\
acquaintances resented the fact that he turned up in popular caf\'e9s\
with her and, leaving her at a table, sauntered about, chatting with\
whomsoever he knew. Though I was curious to see her, I had no desire\
to meet her\'97but I did. I went up to New York with Tom on the train one\
afternoon, and when we stopped by the ash-heaps he jumped to his feet\
and, taking hold of my elbow, literally forced me from the car.\
\
\'93We\'92re getting off,\'94 he insisted. \'93I want you to meet my girl.\'94\
\
I think he\'92d tanked up a good deal at luncheon, and his determination\
to have my company bordered on violence. The supercilious assumption\
was that on Sunday afternoon I had nothing better to do.\
\
I followed him over a low whitewashed railroad fence, and we walked\
back a hundred yards along the road under Doctor Eckleburg\'92s\
persistent stare. The only building in sight was a small block of\
yellow brick sitting on the edge of the waste land, a sort of compact\
Main Street ministering to it, and contiguous to absolutely nothing.\
One of the three shops it contained was for rent and another was an\
all-night restaurant, approached by a trail of ashes; the third was a\
garage\'97Repairs. George B. Wilson. Cars bought and sold.\'97and I followed\
Tom inside.\
\
The interior was unprosperous and bare; the only car visible was the\
dust-covered wreck of a Ford which crouched in a dim corner. It had\
occurred to me that this shadow of a garage must be a blind, and that\
sumptuous and romantic apartments were concealed overhead, when the\
proprietor himself appeared in the door of an office, wiping his hands\
on a piece of waste. He was a blond, spiritless man, anaemic, and\
faintly handsome. When he saw us a damp gleam of hope sprang into his\
light blue eyes.\
\
\'93Hello, Wilson, old man,\'94 said Tom, slapping him jovially on the\
shoulder. \'93How\'92s business?\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t complain,\'94 answered Wilson unconvincingly. \'93When are you\
going to sell me that car?\'94\
\
\'93Next week; I\'92ve got my man working on it now.\'94\
\
\'93Works pretty slow, don\'92t he?\'94\
\
\'93No, he doesn\'92t,\'94 said Tom coldly. \'93And if you feel that way about it,\
maybe I\'92d better sell it somewhere else after all.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t mean that,\'94 explained Wilson quickly. \'93I just meant\'97\'94\
\
His voice faded off and Tom glanced impatiently around the garage.\
Then I heard footsteps on a stairs, and in a moment the thickish\
figure of a woman blocked out the light from the office door. She was\
in the middle thirties, and faintly stout, but she carried her flesh\
sensuously as some women can. Her face, above a spotted dress of dark\
blue cr\'eape-de-chine, contained no facet or gleam of beauty, but there\
was an immediately perceptible vitality about her as if the nerves of\
her body were continually smouldering. She smiled slowly and, walking\
through her husband as if he were a ghost, shook hands with Tom,\
looking him flush in the eye. Then she wet her lips, and without\
turning around spoke to her husband in a soft, coarse voice:\
\
\'93Get some chairs, why don\'92t you, so somebody can sit down.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, sure,\'94 agreed Wilson hurriedly, and went toward the little\
office, mingling immediately with the cement colour of the walls. A\
white ashen dust veiled his dark suit and his pale hair as it veiled\
everything in the vicinity\'97except his wife, who moved close to Tom.\
\
\'93I want to see you,\'94 said Tom intently. \'93Get on the next train.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll meet you by the newsstand on the lower level.\'94\
\
She nodded and moved away from him just as George Wilson emerged with\
two chairs from his office door.\
\
We waited for her down the road and out of sight. It was a few days\
before the Fourth of July, and a grey, scrawny Italian child was\
setting torpedoes in a row along the railroad track.\
\
\'93Terrible place, isn\'92t it,\'94 said Tom, exchanging a frown with Doctor\
Eckleburg.\
\
\'93Awful.\'94\
\
\'93It does her good to get away.\'94\
\
\'93Doesn\'92t her husband object?\'94\
\
\'93Wilson? He thinks she goes to see her sister in New York. He\'92s so\
dumb he doesn\'92t know he\'92s alive.\'94\
\
So Tom Buchanan and his girl and I went up together to New York\'97or not\
quite together, for Mrs. Wilson sat discreetly in another car. Tom\
deferred that much to the sensibilities of those East Eggers who might\
be on the train.\
\
She had changed her dress to a brown figured muslin, which stretched\
tight over her rather wide hips as Tom helped her to the platform in\
New York. At the newsstand she bought a copy of Town Tattle and a\
moving-picture magazine, and in the station drugstore some cold cream\
and a small flask of perfume. Upstairs, in the solemn echoing drive\
she let four taxicabs drive away before she selected a new one,\
lavender-coloured with grey upholstery, and in this we slid out from\
the mass of the station into the glowing sunshine. But immediately she\
turned sharply from the window and, leaning forward, tapped on the\
front glass.\
\
\'93I want to get one of those dogs,\'94 she said earnestly. \'93I want to get\
one for the apartment. They\'92re nice to have\'97a dog.\'94\
\
We backed up to a grey old man who bore an absurd resemblance to John\
D. Rockefeller. In a basket swung from his neck cowered a dozen very\
recent puppies of an indeterminate breed.\
\
\'93What kind are they?\'94 asked Mrs. Wilson eagerly, as he came to the\
taxi-window.\
\
\'93All kinds. What kind do you want, lady?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to get one of those police dogs; I don\'92t suppose you got\
that kind?\'94\
\
The man peered doubtfully into the basket, plunged in his hand and\
drew one up, wriggling, by the back of the neck.\
\
\'93That\'92s no police dog,\'94 said Tom.\
\
\'93No, it\'92s not exactly a police dog,\'94 said the man with disappointment\
in his voice. \'93It\'92s more of an Airedale.\'94 He passed his hand over the\
brown washrag of a back. \'93Look at that coat. Some coat. That\'92s a dog\
that\'92ll never bother you with catching cold.\'94\
\
\'93I think it\'92s cute,\'94 said Mrs. Wilson enthusiastically. \'93How much is\
it?\'94\
\
\'93That dog?\'94 He looked at it admiringly. \'93That dog will cost you ten\
dollars.\'94\
\
The Airedale\'97undoubtedly there was an Airedale concerned in it\
somewhere, though its feet were startlingly white\'97changed hands and\
settled down into Mrs. Wilson\'92s lap, where she fondled the\
weatherproof coat with rapture.\
\
\'93Is it a boy or a girl?\'94 she asked delicately.\
\
\'93That dog? That dog\'92s a boy.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a bitch,\'94 said Tom decisively. \'93Here\'92s your money. Go and buy\
ten more dogs with it.\'94\
\
We drove over to Fifth Avenue, warm and soft, almost pastoral, on the\
summer Sunday afternoon. I wouldn\'92t have been surprised to see a great\
flock of white sheep turn the corner.\
\
\'93Hold on,\'94 I said, \'93I have to leave you here.\'94\
\
\'93No you don\'92t,\'94 interposed Tom quickly. \'93Myrtle\'92ll be hurt if you\
don\'92t come up to the apartment. Won\'92t you, Myrtle?\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 she urged. \'93I\'92ll telephone my sister Catherine. She\'92s said\
to be very beautiful by people who ought to know.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92d like to, but\'97\'94\
\
We went on, cutting back again over the Park toward the West Hundreds.\
At 158th Street the cab stopped at one slice in a long white cake of\
apartment-houses. Throwing a regal homecoming glance around the\
neighbourhood, Mrs. Wilson gathered up her dog and her other\
purchases, and went haughtily in.\
\
\'93I\'92m going to have the McKees come up,\'94 she announced as we rose in\
the elevator. \'93And, of course, I got to call up my sister, too.\'94\
\
The apartment was on the top floor\'97a small living-room, a small\
dining-room, a small bedroom, and a bath. The living-room was crowded\
to the doors with a set of tapestried furniture entirely too large for\
it, so that to move about was to stumble continually over scenes of\
ladies swinging in the gardens of Versailles. The only picture was an\
over-enlarged photograph, apparently a hen sitting on a blurred rock.\
Looked at from a distance, however, the hen resolved itself into a\
bonnet, and the countenance of a stout old lady beamed down into the\
room. Several old copies of Town Tattle lay on the table together with\
a copy of Simon Called Peter, and some of the small scandal magazines\
of Broadway. Mrs. Wilson was first concerned with the dog. A reluctant\
elevator boy went for a box full of straw and some milk, to which he\
added on his own initiative a tin of large, hard dog biscuits\'97one of\
which decomposed apathetically in the saucer of milk all\
afternoon. Meanwhile Tom brought out a bottle of whisky from a locked\
bureau door.\
\
I have been drunk just twice in my life, and the second time was that\
afternoon; so everything that happened has a dim, hazy cast over it,\
although until after eight o\'92clock the apartment was full of cheerful\
sun. Sitting on Tom\'92s lap Mrs. Wilson called up several people on the\
telephone; then there were no cigarettes, and I went out to buy some\
at the drugstore on the corner. When I came back they had both\
disappeared, so I sat down discreetly in the living-room and read a\
chapter of Simon Called Peter\'97either it was terrible stuff or the\
whisky distorted things, because it didn\'92t make any sense to me.\
\
Just as Tom and Myrtle (after the first drink Mrs. Wilson and I called\
each other by our first names) reappeared, company commenced to arrive\
at the apartment door.\
\
The sister, Catherine, was a slender, worldly girl of about thirty,\
with a solid, sticky bob of red hair, and a complexion powdered milky\
white. Her eyebrows had been plucked and then drawn on again at a more\
rakish angle, but the efforts of nature toward the restoration of the\
old alignment gave a blurred air to her face. When she moved about\
there was an incessant clicking as innumerable pottery bracelets\
jingled up and down upon her arms. She came in with such a proprietary\
haste, and looked around so possessively at the furniture that I\
wondered if she lived here. But when I asked her she laughed\
immoderately, repeated my question aloud, and told me she lived with a\
girl friend at a hotel.\
\
Mr. McKee was a pale, feminine man from the flat below. He had just\
shaved, for there was a white spot of lather on his cheekbone, and he\
was most respectful in his greeting to everyone in the room. He\
informed me that he was in the \'93artistic game,\'94 and I gathered later\
that he was a photographer and had made the dim enlargement of\
Mrs. Wilson\'92s mother which hovered like an ectoplasm on the wall. His\
wife was shrill, languid, handsome, and horrible. She told me with\
pride that her husband had photographed her a hundred and twenty-seven\
times since they had been married.\
\
Mrs. Wilson had changed her costume some time before, and was now\
attired in an elaborate afternoon dress of cream-coloured chiffon,\
which gave out a continual rustle as she swept about the room. With\
the influence of the dress her personality had also undergone a\
change. The intense vitality that had been so remarkable in the garage\
was converted into impressive hauteur. Her laughter, her gestures, her\
assertions became more violently affected moment by moment, and as she\
expanded the room grew smaller around her, until she seemed to be\
revolving on a noisy, creaking pivot through the smoky air.\
\
\'93My dear,\'94 she told her sister in a high, mincing shout, \'93most of\
these fellas will cheat you every time. All they think of is money. I\
had a woman up here last week to look at my feet, and when she gave me\
the bill you\'92d of thought she had my appendicitis out.\'94\
\
\'93What was the name of the woman?\'94 asked Mrs. McKee.\
\
\'93Mrs. Eberhardt. She goes around looking at people\'92s feet in their own\
homes.\'94\
\
\'93I like your dress,\'94 remarked Mrs. McKee, \'93I think it\'92s adorable.\'94\
\
Mrs. Wilson rejected the compliment by raising her eyebrow in disdain.\
\
\'93It\'92s just a crazy old thing,\'94 she said. \'93I just slip it on sometimes\
when I don\'92t care what I look like.\'94\
\
\'93But it looks wonderful on you, if you know what I mean,\'94 pursued Mrs.\
McKee. \'93If Chester could only get you in that pose I think he could\
make something of it.\'94\
\
We all looked in silence at Mrs. Wilson, who removed a strand of hair\
from over her eyes and looked back at us with a brilliant smile. Mr.\
McKee regarded her intently with his head on one side, and then moved\
his hand back and forth slowly in front of his face.\
\
\'93I should change the light,\'94 he said after a moment. \'93I\'92d like to\
bring out the modelling of the features. And I\'92d try to get hold of\
all the back hair.\'94\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t think of changing the light,\'94 cried Mrs. McKee. \'93I think\
it\'92s\'97\'94\
\
Her husband said \'93Sh!\'94 and we all looked at the subject again,\
whereupon Tom Buchanan yawned audibly and got to his feet.\
\
\'93You McKees have something to drink,\'94 he said. \'93Get some more ice and\
mineral water, Myrtle, before everybody goes to sleep.\'94\
\
\'93I told that boy about the ice.\'94 Myrtle raised her eyebrows in despair\
at the shiftlessness of the lower orders. \'93These people! You have to\
keep after them all the time.\'94\
\
She looked at me and laughed pointlessly. Then she flounced over to\
the dog, kissed it with ecstasy, and swept into the kitchen, implying\
that a dozen chefs awaited her orders there.\
\
\'93I\'92ve done some nice things out on Long Island,\'94 asserted Mr. McKee.\
\
Tom looked at him blankly.\
\
\'93Two of them we have framed downstairs.\'94\
\
\'93Two what?\'94 demanded Tom.\
\
\'93Two studies. One of them I call Montauk Point\'97The Gulls, and the\
other I call Montauk Point\'97The Sea.\'94\
\
The sister Catherine sat down beside me on the couch.\
\
\'93Do you live down on Long Island, too?\'94 she inquired.\
\
\'93I live at West Egg.\'94\
\
\'93Really? I was down there at a party about a month ago. At a man named\
Gatsby\'92s. Do you know him?\'94\
\
\'93I live next door to him.\'94\
\
\'93Well, they say he\'92s a nephew or a cousin of Kaiser Wilhelm\'92s. That\'92s\
where all his money comes from.\'94\
\
\'93Really?\'94\
\
She nodded.\
\
\'93I\'92m scared of him. I\'92d hate to have him get anything on me.\'94\
\
This absorbing information about my neighbour was interrupted by Mrs.\
McKee\'92s pointing suddenly at Catherine:\
\
\'93Chester, I think you could do something with her,\'94 she broke out, but\
Mr. McKee only nodded in a bored way, and turned his attention to Tom.\
\
\'93I\'92d like to do more work on Long Island, if I could get the entry.\
All I ask is that they should give me a start.\'94\
\
\'93Ask Myrtle,\'94 said Tom, breaking into a short shout of laughter as\
Mrs. Wilson entered with a tray. \'93She\'92ll give you a letter of\
introduction, won\'92t you, Myrtle?\'94\
\
\'93Do what?\'94 she asked, startled.\
\
\'93You\'92ll give McKee a letter of introduction to your husband, so he can\
do some studies of him.\'94 His lips moved silently for a moment as he\
invented, \'93\uc0\u8202 \'91George B. Wilson at the Gasoline Pump,\'92 or something like\
that.\'94\
\
Catherine leaned close to me and whispered in my ear:\
\
\'93Neither of them can stand the person they\'92re married to.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t they?\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t stand them.\'94 She looked at Myrtle and then at Tom. \'93What I say\
is, why go on living with them if they can\'92t stand them? If I was them\
I\'92d get a divorce and get married to each other right away.\'94\
\
\'93Doesn\'92t she like Wilson either?\'94\
\
The answer to this was unexpected. It came from Myrtle, who had\
overheard the question, and it was violent and obscene.\
\
\'93You see,\'94 cried Catherine triumphantly. She lowered her voice again.\
\'93It\'92s really his wife that\'92s keeping them apart. She\'92s a Catholic, and\
they don\'92t believe in divorce.\'94\
\
Daisy was not a Catholic, and I was a little shocked at the\
elaborateness of the lie.\
\
\'93When they do get married,\'94 continued Catherine, \'93they\'92re going West\
to live for a while until it blows over.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92d be more discreet to go to Europe.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, do you like Europe?\'94 she exclaimed surprisingly. \'93I just got back\
from Monte Carlo.\'94\
\
\'93Really.\'94\
\
\'93Just last year. I went over there with another girl.\'94\
\
\'93Stay long?\'94\
\
\'93No, we just went to Monte Carlo and back. We went by way of\
Marseilles. We had over twelve hundred dollars when we started, but we\
got gyped out of it all in two days in the private rooms. We had an\
awful time getting back, I can tell you. God, how I hated that town!\'94\
\
The late afternoon sky bloomed in the window for a moment like the\
blue honey of the Mediterranean\'97then the shrill voice of Mrs. McKee\
called me back into the room.\
\
\'93I almost made a mistake, too,\'94 she declared vigorously. \'93I almost\
married a little kike who\'92d been after me for years. I knew he was\
below me. Everybody kept saying to me: \'91Lucille, that man\'92s way below\
you!\'92 But if I hadn\'92t met Chester, he\'92d of got me sure.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, but listen,\'94 said Myrtle Wilson, nodding her head up and down,\
\'93at least you didn\'92t marry him.\'94\
\
\'93I know I didn\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I married him,\'94 said Myrtle, ambiguously. \'93And that\'92s the\
difference between your case and mine.\'94\
\
\'93Why did you, Myrtle?\'94 demanded Catherine. \'93Nobody forced you to.\'94\
\
Myrtle considered.\
\
\'93I married him because I thought he was a gentleman,\'94 she said\
finally. \'93I thought he knew something about breeding, but he wasn\'92t\
fit to lick my shoe.\'94\
\
\'93You were crazy about him for a while,\'94 said Catherine.\
\
\'93Crazy about him!\'94 cried Myrtle incredulously. \'93Who said I was crazy\
about him? I never was any more crazy about him than I was about that\
man there.\'94\
\
She pointed suddenly at me, and everyone looked at me accusingly. I\
tried to show by my expression that I expected no affection.\
\
\'93The only crazy I was was when I married him. I knew right away I made\
a mistake. He borrowed somebody\'92s best suit to get married in, and\
never even told me about it, and the man came after it one day when he\
was out: \'91Oh, is that your suit?\'92 I said. \'91This is the first I ever\
heard about it.\'92 But I gave it to him and then I lay down and cried to\
beat the band all afternoon.\'94\
\
\'93She really ought to get away from him,\'94 resumed Catherine to me.\
\'93They\'92ve been living over that garage for eleven years. And Tom\'92s the\
first sweetie she ever had.\'94\
\
The bottle of whisky\'97a second one\'97was now in constant demand by all\
present, excepting Catherine, who \'93felt just as good on nothing at\
all.\'94 Tom rang for the janitor and sent him for some celebrated\
sandwiches, which were a complete supper in themselves. I wanted to\
get out and walk eastward toward the park through the soft twilight,\
but each time I tried to go I became entangled in some wild, strident\
argument which pulled me back, as if with ropes, into my chair. Yet\
high over the city our line of yellow windows must have contributed\
their share of human secrecy to the casual watcher in the darkening\
streets, and I saw him too, looking up and wondering. I was within and\
without, simultaneously enchanted and repelled by the inexhaustible\
variety of life.\
\
Myrtle pulled her chair close to mine, and suddenly her warm breath\
poured over me the story of her first meeting with Tom.\
\
\'93It was on the two little seats facing each other that are always the\
last ones left on the train. I was going up to New York to see my\
sister and spend the night. He had on a dress suit and patent leather\
shoes, and I couldn\'92t keep my eyes off him, but every time he looked\
at me I had to pretend to be looking at the advertisement over his\
head. When we came into the station he was next to me, and his white\
shirtfront pressed against my arm, and so I told him I\'92d have to call\
a policeman, but he knew I lied. I was so excited that when I got into\
a taxi with him I didn\'92t hardly know I wasn\'92t getting into a subway\
train. All I kept thinking about, over and over, was \'91You can\'92t live\
forever; you can\'92t live forever.\'92\uc0\u8202 \'94\
\
She turned to Mrs. McKee and the room rang full of her artificial\
laughter.\
\
\'93My dear,\'94 she cried, \'93I\'92m going to give you this dress as soon as I\'92m\
through with it. I\'92ve got to get another one tomorrow. I\'92m going to\
make a list of all the things I\'92ve got to get. A massage and a wave,\
and a collar for the dog, and one of those cute little ashtrays where\
you touch a spring, and a wreath with a black silk bow for mother\'92s\
grave that\'92ll last all summer. I got to write down a list so I won\'92t\
forget all the things I got to do.\'94\
\
It was nine o\'92clock\'97almost immediately afterward I looked at my watch\
and found it was ten. Mr. McKee was asleep on a chair with his fists\
clenched in his lap, like a photograph of a man of action. Taking out\
my handkerchief I wiped from his cheek the spot of dried lather that\
had worried me all the afternoon.\
\
The little dog was sitting on the table looking with blind eyes\
through the smoke, and from time to time groaning faintly. People\
disappeared, reappeared, made plans to go somewhere, and then lost\
each other, searched for each other, found each other a few feet\
away. Some time toward midnight Tom Buchanan and Mrs. Wilson stood\
face to face discussing, in impassioned voices, whether Mrs. Wilson\
had any right to mention Daisy\'92s name.\
\
\'93Daisy! Daisy! Daisy!\'94 shouted Mrs. Wilson. \'93I\'92ll say it whenever I\
want to! Daisy! Dai\'97\'94\
\
Making a short deft movement, Tom Buchanan broke her nose with his\
open hand.\
\
Then there were bloody towels upon the bathroom floor, and women\'92s\
voices scolding, and high over the confusion a long broken wail of\
pain. Mr. McKee awoke from his doze and started in a daze toward the\
door. When he had gone halfway he turned around and stared at the\
scene\'97his wife and Catherine scolding and consoling as they stumbled\
here and there among the crowded furniture with articles of aid, and\
the despairing figure on the couch, bleeding fluently, and trying to\
spread a copy of Town Tattle over the tapestry scenes of\
Versailles. Then Mr. McKee turned and continued on out the door.\
Taking my hat from the chandelier, I followed.\
\
\'93Come to lunch some day,\'94 he suggested, as we groaned down in the\
elevator.\
\
\'93Where?\'94\
\
\'93Anywhere.\'94\
\
\'93Keep your hands off the lever,\'94 snapped the elevator boy.\
\
\'93I beg your pardon,\'94 said Mr. McKee with dignity, \'93I didn\'92t know I was\
touching it.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I agreed, \'93I\'92ll be glad to.\'94\
\
\'85 I was standing beside his bed and he was sitting up between the\
sheets, clad in his underwear, with a great portfolio in his hands.\
\
\'93Beauty and the Beast \'85 Loneliness \'85 Old Grocery Horse \'85 Brook\'92n\
Bridge \'85\'94\
\
Then I was lying half asleep in the cold lower level of the\
Pennsylvania Station, staring at the morning Tribune, and waiting for\
the four o\'92clock train.\
\
\
                                 III\
\
There was music from my neighbour\'92s house through the summer nights.\
In his blue gardens men and girls came and went like moths among the\
whisperings and the champagne and the stars. At high tide in the\
afternoon I watched his guests diving from the tower of his raft, or\
taking the sun on the hot sand of his beach while his two motorboats\
slit the waters of the Sound, drawing aquaplanes over cataracts of\
foam. On weekends his Rolls-Royce became an omnibus, bearing parties\
to and from the city between nine in the morning and long past\
midnight, while his station wagon scampered like a brisk yellow bug to\
meet all trains. And on Mondays eight servants, including an extra\
gardener, toiled all day with mops and scrubbing-brushes and hammers\
and garden-shears, repairing the ravages of the night before.\
\
Every Friday five crates of oranges and lemons arrived from a\
fruiterer in New York\'97every Monday these same oranges and lemons left\
his back door in a pyramid of pulpless halves. There was a machine in\
the kitchen which could extract the juice of two hundred oranges in\
half an hour if a little button was pressed two hundred times by a\
butler\'92s thumb.\
\
At least once a fortnight a corps of caterers came down with several\
hundred feet of canvas and enough coloured lights to make a Christmas\
tree of Gatsby\'92s enormous garden. On buffet tables, garnished with\
glistening hors-d\'92oeuvre, spiced baked hams crowded against salads of\
harlequin designs and pastry pigs and turkeys bewitched to a dark\
gold. In the main hall a bar with a real brass rail was set up, and\
stocked with gins and liquors and with cordials so long forgotten that\
most of his female guests were too young to know one from another.\
\
By seven o\'92clock the orchestra has arrived, no thin five-piece affair,\
but a whole pitful of oboes and trombones and saxophones and viols and\
cornets and piccolos, and low and high drums. The last swimmers have\
come in from the beach now and are dressing upstairs; the cars from\
New York are parked five deep in the drive, and already the halls and\
salons and verandas are gaudy with primary colours, and hair bobbed in\
strange new ways, and shawls beyond the dreams of Castile. The bar is\
in full swing, and floating rounds of cocktails permeate the garden\
outside, until the air is alive with chatter and laughter, and casual\
innuendo and introductions forgotten on the spot, and enthusiastic\
meetings between women who never knew each other\'92s names.\
\
The lights grow brighter as the earth lurches away from the sun, and\
now the orchestra is playing yellow cocktail music, and the opera of\
voices pitches a key higher. Laughter is easier minute by minute,\
spilled with prodigality, tipped out at a cheerful word. The groups\
change more swiftly, swell with new arrivals, dissolve and form in the\
same breath; already there are wanderers, confident girls who weave\
here and there among the stouter and more stable, become for a sharp,\
joyous moment the centre of a group, and then, excited with triumph,\
glide on through the sea-change of faces and voices and colour under\
the constantly changing light.\
\
Suddenly one of these gypsies, in trembling opal, seizes a cocktail\
out of the air, dumps it down for courage and, moving her hands like\
Frisco, dances out alone on the canvas platform. A momentary hush; the\
orchestra leader varies his rhythm obligingly for her, and there is a\
burst of chatter as the erroneous news goes around that she is Gilda\
Gray\'92s understudy from the Follies. The party has begun.\
\
I believe that on the first night I went to Gatsby\'92s house I was one\
of the few guests who had actually been invited. People were not\
invited\'97they went there. They got into automobiles which bore them out\
to Long Island, and somehow they ended up at Gatsby\'92s door. Once there\
they were introduced by somebody who knew Gatsby, and after that they\
conducted themselves according to the rules of behaviour associated\
with an amusement park. Sometimes they came and went without having\
met Gatsby at all, came for the party with a simplicity of heart that\
was its own ticket of admission.\
\
I had been actually invited. A chauffeur in a uniform of robin\'92s-egg\
blue crossed my lawn early that Saturday morning with a surprisingly\
formal note from his employer: the honour would be entirely Gatsby\'92s,\
it said, if I would attend his \'93little party\'94 that night. He had seen\
me several times, and had intended to call on me long before, but a\
peculiar combination of circumstances had prevented it\'97signed Jay\
Gatsby, in a majestic hand.\
\
Dressed up in white flannels I went over to his lawn a little after\
seven, and wandered around rather ill at ease among swirls and eddies\
of people I didn\'92t know\'97though here and there was a face I had noticed\
on the commuting train. I was immediately struck by the number of\
young Englishmen dotted about; all well dressed, all looking a little\
hungry, and all talking in low, earnest voices to solid and prosperous\
Americans. I was sure that they were selling something: bonds or\
insurance or automobiles. They were at least agonizingly aware of the\
easy money in the vicinity and convinced that it was theirs for a few\
words in the right key.\
\
As soon as I arrived I made an attempt to find my host, but the two or\
three people of whom I asked his whereabouts stared at me in such an\
amazed way, and denied so vehemently any knowledge of his movements,\
that I slunk off in the direction of the cocktail table\'97the only place\
in the garden where a single man could linger without looking\
purposeless and alone.\
\
I was on my way to get roaring drunk from sheer embarrassment when\
Jordan Baker came out of the house and stood at the head of the marble\
steps, leaning a little backward and looking with contemptuous\
interest down into the garden.\
\
Welcome or not, I found it necessary to attach myself to someone\
before I should begin to address cordial remarks to the passersby.\
\
\'93Hello!\'94 I roared, advancing toward her. My voice seemed unnaturally\
loud across the garden.\
\
\'93I thought you might be here,\'94 she responded absently as I came up.\
\'93I remembered you lived next door to\'97\'94\
\
She held my hand impersonally, as a promise that she\'92d take care of me\
in a minute, and gave ear to two girls in twin yellow dresses, who\
stopped at the foot of the steps.\
\
\'93Hello!\'94 they cried together. \'93Sorry you didn\'92t win.\'94\
\
That was for the golf tournament. She had lost in the finals the week\
before.\
\
\'93You don\'92t know who we are,\'94 said one of the girls in yellow, \'93but we\
met you here about a month ago.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve dyed your hair since then,\'94 remarked Jordan, and I started,\
but the girls had moved casually on and her remark was addressed to\
the premature moon, produced like the supper, no doubt, out of a\
caterer\'92s basket. With Jordan\'92s slender golden arm resting in mine, we\
descended the steps and sauntered about the garden. A tray of\
cocktails floated at us through the twilight, and we sat down at a\
table with the two girls in yellow and three men, each one introduced\
to us as Mr. Mumble.\
\
\'93Do you come to these parties often?\'94 inquired Jordan of the girl\
beside her.\
\
\'93The last one was the one I met you at,\'94 answered the girl, in an\
alert confident voice. She turned to her companion: \'93Wasn\'92t it for\
you, Lucille?\'94\
\
It was for Lucille, too.\
\
\'93I like to come,\'94 Lucille said. \'93I never care what I do, so I always\
have a good time. When I was here last I tore my gown on a chair, and\
he asked me my name and address\'97inside of a week I got a package from\
Croirier\'92s with a new evening gown in it.\'94\
\
\'93Did you keep it?\'94 asked Jordan.\
\
\'93Sure I did. I was going to wear it tonight, but it was too big in the\
bust and had to be altered. It was gas blue with lavender beads. Two\
hundred and sixty-five dollars.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s something funny about a fellow that\'92ll do a thing like that,\'94\
said the other girl eagerly. \'93He doesn\'92t want any trouble with\
anybody.\'94\
\
\'93Who doesn\'92t?\'94 I inquired.\
\
\'93Gatsby. Somebody told me\'97\'94\
\
The two girls and Jordan leaned together confidentially.\
\
\'93Somebody told me they thought he killed a man once.\'94\
\
A thrill passed over all of us. The three Mr. Mumbles bent forward and\
listened eagerly.\
\
\'93I don\'92t think it\'92s so much that,\'94 argued Lucille sceptically; \'93It\'92s\
more that he was a German spy during the war.\'94\
\
One of the men nodded in confirmation.\
\
\'93I heard that from a man who knew all about him, grew up with him in\
Germany,\'94 he assured us positively.\
\
\'93Oh, no,\'94 said the first girl, \'93it couldn\'92t be that, because he was in\
the American army during the war.\'94 As our credulity switched back to\
her she leaned forward with enthusiasm. \'93You look at him sometimes\
when he thinks nobody\'92s looking at him. I\'92ll bet he killed a man.\'94\
\
She narrowed her eyes and shivered. Lucille shivered. We all turned\
and looked around for Gatsby. It was testimony to the romantic\
speculation he inspired that there were whispers about him from those\
who had found little that it was necessary to whisper about in this\
world.\
\
The first supper\'97there would be another one after midnight\'97was now\
being served, and Jordan invited me to join her own party, who were\
spread around a table on the other side of the garden. There were\
three married couples and Jordan\'92s escort, a persistent undergraduate\
given to violent innuendo, and obviously under the impression that\
sooner or later Jordan was going to yield him up her person to a\
greater or lesser degree. Instead of rambling, this party had\
preserved a dignified homogeneity, and assumed to itself the function\
of representing the staid nobility of the countryside\'97East Egg\
condescending to West Egg and carefully on guard against its\
spectroscopic gaiety.\
\
\'93Let\'92s get out,\'94 whispered Jordan, after a somehow wasteful and\
inappropriate half-hour; \'93this is much too polite for me.\'94\
\
We got up, and she explained that we were going to find the host: I\
had never met him, she said, and it was making me uneasy. The\
undergraduate nodded in a cynical, melancholy way.\
\
The bar, where we glanced first, was crowded, but Gatsby was not\
there. She couldn\'92t find him from the top of the steps, and he wasn\'92t\
on the veranda. On a chance we tried an important-looking door, and\
walked into a high Gothic library, panelled with carved English oak,\
and probably transported complete from some ruin overseas.\
\
A stout, middle-aged man, with enormous owl-eyed spectacles, was\
sitting somewhat drunk on the edge of a great table, staring with\
unsteady concentration at the shelves of books. As we entered he\
wheeled excitedly around and examined Jordan from head to foot.\
\
\'93What do you think?\'94 he demanded impetuously.\
\
\'93About what?\'94\
\
He waved his hand toward the bookshelves.\
\
\'93About that. As a matter of fact you needn\'92t bother to ascertain. I\
ascertained. They\'92re real.\'94\
\
\'93The books?\'94\
\
He nodded.\
\
\'93Absolutely real\'97have pages and everything. I thought they\'92d be a nice\
durable cardboard. Matter of fact, they\'92re absolutely real.  Pages\
and\'97Here! Lemme show you.\'94\
\
Taking our scepticism for granted, he rushed to the bookcases and\
returned with Volume One of the Stoddard Lectures.\
\
\'93See!\'94 he cried triumphantly. \'93It\'92s a bona-fide piece of printed\
matter. It fooled me. This fella\'92s a regular Belasco. It\'92s a\
triumph. What thoroughness! What realism! Knew when to stop,\
too\'97didn\'92t cut the pages. But what do you want? What do you expect?\'94\
\
He snatched the book from me and replaced it hastily on its shelf,\
muttering that if one brick was removed the whole library was liable\
to collapse.\
\
\'93Who brought you?\'94 he demanded. \'93Or did you just come? I was brought.\
Most people were brought.\'94\
\
Jordan looked at him alertly, cheerfully, without answering.\
\
\'93I was brought by a woman named Roosevelt,\'94 he continued. \'93Mrs. Claud\
Roosevelt. Do you know her? I met her somewhere last night. I\'92ve been\
drunk for about a week now, and I thought it might sober me up to sit\
in a library.\'94\
\
\'93Has it?\'94\
\
\'93A little bit, I think. I can\'92t tell yet. I\'92ve only been here an hour.\
Did I tell you about the books? They\'92re real. They\'92re\'97\'94\
\
\'93You told us.\'94\
\
We shook hands with him gravely and went back outdoors.\
\
There was dancing now on the canvas in the garden; old men pushing\
young girls backward in eternal graceless circles, superior couples\
holding each other tortuously, fashionably, and keeping in the\
corners\'97and a great number of single girls dancing individually or\
relieving the orchestra for a moment of the burden of the banjo or the\
traps. By midnight the hilarity had increased. A celebrated tenor had\
sung in Italian, and a notorious contralto had sung in jazz, and\
between the numbers people were doing \'93stunts\'94 all over the garden,\
while happy, vacuous bursts of laughter rose toward the summer sky. A\
pair of stage twins, who turned out to be the girls in yellow, did a\
baby act in costume, and champagne was served in glasses bigger than\
finger-bowls. The moon had risen higher, and floating in the Sound was\
a triangle of silver scales, trembling a little to the stiff, tinny\
drip of the banjoes on the lawn.\
\
I was still with Jordan Baker. We were sitting at a table with a man\
of about my age and a rowdy little girl, who gave way upon the\
slightest provocation to uncontrollable laughter. I was enjoying\
myself now. I had taken two finger-bowls of champagne, and the scene\
had changed before my eyes into something significant, elemental, and\
profound.\
\
At a lull in the entertainment the man looked at me and smiled.\
\
\'93Your face is familiar,\'94 he said politely. \'93Weren\'92t you in the First\
Division during the war?\'94\
\
\'93Why yes. I was in the Twenty-eighth Infantry.\'94\
\
\'93I was in the Sixteenth until June nineteen-eighteen. I knew I\'92d seen\
you somewhere before.\'94\
\
We talked for a moment about some wet, grey little villages in France.\
Evidently he lived in this vicinity, for he told me that he had just\
bought a hydroplane, and was going to try it out in the morning.\
\
\'93Want to go with me, old sport? Just near the shore along the Sound.\'94\
\
\'93What time?\'94\
\
\'93Any time that suits you best.\'94\
\
It was on the tip of my tongue to ask his name when Jordan looked\
around and smiled.\
\
\'93Having a gay time now?\'94 she inquired.\
\
\'93Much better.\'94 I turned again to my new acquaintance. \'93This is an\
unusual party for me. I haven\'92t even seen the host. I live over\
there\'97\'94 I waved my hand at the invisible hedge in the distance, \'93and\
this man Gatsby sent over his chauffeur with an invitation.\'94\
\
For a moment he looked at me as if he failed to understand.\
\
\'93I\'92m Gatsby,\'94 he said suddenly.\
\
\'93What!\'94 I exclaimed. \'93Oh, I beg your pardon.\'94\
\
\'93I thought you knew, old sport. I\'92m afraid I\'92m not a very good host.\'94\
\
He smiled understandingly\'97much more than understandingly. It was one\
of those rare smiles with a quality of eternal reassurance in it, that\
you may come across four or five times in life. It faced\'97or seemed to\
face\'97the whole eternal world for an instant, and then concentrated on\
you with an irresistible prejudice in your favour. It understood you\
just so far as you wanted to be understood, believed in you as you\
would like to believe in yourself, and assured you that it had\
precisely the impression of you that, at your best, you hoped to\
convey. Precisely at that point it vanished\'97and I was looking at an\
elegant young roughneck, a year or two over thirty, whose elaborate\
formality of speech just missed being absurd. Some time before he\
introduced himself I\'92d got a strong impression that he was picking his\
words with care.\
\
Almost at the moment when Mr. Gatsby identified himself a butler\
hurried toward him with the information that Chicago was calling him\
on the wire. He excused himself with a small bow that included each of\
us in turn.\
\
\'93If you want anything just ask for it, old sport,\'94 he urged me.\
\'93Excuse me. I will rejoin you later.\'94\
\
When he was gone I turned immediately to Jordan\'97constrained to assure\
her of my surprise. I had expected that Mr. Gatsby would be a florid\
and corpulent person in his middle years.\
\
\'93Who is he?\'94 I demanded. \'93Do you know?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s just a man named Gatsby.\'94\
\
\'93Where is he from, I mean? And what does he do?\'94\
\
\'93Now you\'92re started on the subject,\'94 she answered with a wan smile.\
\'93Well, he told me once he was an Oxford man.\'94\
\
A dim background started to take shape behind him, but at her next\
remark it faded away.\
\
\'93However, I don\'92t believe it.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 she insisted, \'93I just don\'92t think he went there.\'94\
\
Something in her tone reminded me of the other girl\'92s \'93I think he\
killed a man,\'94 and had the effect of stimulating my curiosity. I would\
have accepted without question the information that Gatsby sprang from\
the swamps of Louisiana or from the lower East Side of New York. That\
was comprehensible. But young men didn\'92t\'97at least in my provincial\
inexperience I believed they didn\'92t\'97drift coolly out of nowhere and\
buy a palace on Long Island Sound.\
\
\'93Anyhow, he gives large parties,\'94 said Jordan, changing the subject\
with an urban distaste for the concrete. \'93And I like large parties.\
They\'92re so intimate. At small parties there isn\'92t any privacy.\'94\
\
There was the boom of a bass drum, and the voice of the orchestra\
leader rang out suddenly above the echolalia of the garden.\
\
\'93Ladies and gentlemen,\'94 he cried. \'93At the request of Mr. Gatsby we are\
going to play for you Mr. Vladmir Tostoff\'92s latest work, which\
attracted so much attention at Carnegie Hall last May. If you read the\
papers you know there was a big sensation.\'94 He smiled with jovial\
condescension, and added: \'93Some sensation!\'94 Whereupon everybody\
laughed.\
\
\'93The piece is known,\'94 he concluded lustily, \'93as \'91Vladmir Tostoff\'92s\
Jazz History of the World!\'92\uc0\u8202 \'94\
\
The nature of Mr. Tostoff\'92s composition eluded me, because just as it\
began my eyes fell on Gatsby, standing alone on the marble steps and\
looking from one group to another with approving eyes. His tanned skin\
was drawn attractively tight on his face and his short hair looked as\
though it were trimmed every day. I could see nothing sinister about\
him. I wondered if the fact that he was not drinking helped to set him\
off from his guests, for it seemed to me that he grew more correct as\
the fraternal hilarity increased. When the \'93Jazz History of the World\'94\
was over, girls were putting their heads on men\'92s shoulders in a\
puppyish, convivial way, girls were swooning backward playfully into\
men\'92s arms, even into groups, knowing that someone would arrest their\
falls\'97but no one swooned backward on Gatsby, and no French bob touched\
Gatsby\'92s shoulder, and no singing quartets were formed with Gatsby\'92s\
head for one link.\
\
\'93I beg your pardon.\'94\
\
Gatsby\'92s butler was suddenly standing beside us.\
\
\'93Miss Baker?\'94 he inquired. \'93I beg your pardon, but Mr. Gatsby would\
like to speak to you alone.\'94\
\
\'93With me?\'94 she exclaimed in surprise.\
\
\'93Yes, madame.\'94\
\
She got up slowly, raising her eyebrows at me in astonishment, and\
followed the butler toward the house. I noticed that she wore her\
evening-dress, all her dresses, like sports clothes\'97there was a\
jauntiness about her movements as if she had first learned to walk\
upon golf courses on clean, crisp mornings.\
\
I was alone and it was almost two. For some time confused and\
intriguing sounds had issued from a long, many-windowed room which\
overhung the terrace. Eluding Jordan\'92s undergraduate, who was now\
engaged in an obstetrical conversation with two chorus girls, and who\
implored me to join him, I went inside.\
\
The large room was full of people. One of the girls in yellow was\
playing the piano, and beside her stood a tall, red-haired young lady\
from a famous chorus, engaged in song. She had drunk a quantity of\
champagne, and during the course of her song she had decided, ineptly,\
that everything was very, very sad\'97she was not only singing, she was\
weeping too. Whenever there was a pause in the song she filled it with\
gasping, broken sobs, and then took up the lyric again in a quavering\
soprano. The tears coursed down her cheeks\'97not freely, however, for\
when they came into contact with her heavily beaded eyelashes they\
assumed an inky colour, and pursued the rest of their way in slow\
black rivulets. A humorous suggestion was made that she sing the notes\
on her face, whereupon she threw up her hands, sank into a chair, and\
went off into a deep vinous sleep.\
\
\'93She had a fight with a man who says he\'92s her husband,\'94 explained a\
girl at my elbow.\
\
I looked around. Most of the remaining women were now having fights\
with men said to be their husbands. Even Jordan\'92s party, the quartet\
from East Egg, were rent asunder by dissension. One of the men was\
talking with curious intensity to a young actress, and his wife, after\
attempting to laugh at the situation in a dignified and indifferent\
way, broke down entirely and resorted to flank attacks\'97at intervals\
she appeared suddenly at his side like an angry diamond, and hissed:\
\'93You promised!\'94 into his ear.\
\
The reluctance to go home was not confined to wayward men. The hall\
was at present occupied by two deplorably sober men and their highly\
indignant wives. The wives were sympathizing with each other in\
slightly raised voices.\
\
\'93Whenever he sees I\'92m having a good time he wants to go home.\'94\
\
\'93Never heard anything so selfish in my life.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re always the first ones to leave.\'94\
\
\'93So are we.\'94\
\
\'93Well, we\'92re almost the last tonight,\'94 said one of the men sheepishly.\
\'93The orchestra left half an hour ago.\'94\
\
In spite of the wives\'92 agreement that such malevolence was beyond\
credibility, the dispute ended in a short struggle, and both wives\
were lifted, kicking, into the night.\
\
As I waited for my hat in the hall the door of the library opened and\
Jordan Baker and Gatsby came out together. He was saying some last\
word to her, but the eagerness in his manner tightened abruptly into\
formality as several people approached him to say goodbye.\
\
Jordan\'92s party were calling impatiently to her from the porch, but she\
lingered for a moment to shake hands.\
\
\'93I\'92ve just heard the most amazing thing,\'94 she whispered. \'93How long\
were we in there?\'94\
\
\'93Why, about an hour.\'94\
\
\'93It was \'85 simply amazing,\'94 she repeated abstractedly. \'93But I swore I\
wouldn\'92t tell it and here I am tantalizing you.\'94 She yawned gracefully\
in my face. \'93Please come and see me \'85 Phone book \'85 Under the name of\
Mrs. Sigourney Howard \'85 My aunt \'85\'94 She was hurrying off as she\
talked\'97her brown hand waved a jaunty salute as she melted into her\
party at the door.\
\
Rather ashamed that on my first appearance I had stayed so late, I\
joined the last of Gatsby\'92s guests, who were clustered around him. I\
wanted to explain that I\'92d hunted for him early in the evening and to\
apologize for not having known him in the garden.\
\
\'93Don\'92t mention it,\'94 he enjoined me eagerly. \'93Don\'92t give it another\
thought, old sport.\'94 The familiar expression held no more familiarity\
than the hand which reassuringly brushed my shoulder. \'93And don\'92t\
forget we\'92re going up in the hydroplane tomorrow morning, at nine\
o\'92clock.\'94\
\
Then the butler, behind his shoulder:\
\
\'93Philadelphia wants you on the phone, sir.\'94\
\
\'93All right, in a minute. Tell them I\'92ll be right there \'85 Good night.\'94\
\
\'93Good night.\'94\
\
\'93Good night.\'94 He smiled\'97and suddenly there seemed to be a pleasant\
significance in having been among the last to go, as if he had desired\
it all the time. \'93Good night, old sport \'85 Good night.\'94\
\
But as I walked down the steps I saw that the evening was not quite\
over. Fifty feet from the door a dozen headlights illuminated a\
bizarre and tumultuous scene. In the ditch beside the road, right side\
up, but violently shorn of one wheel, rested a new coup\'e9 which had\
left Gatsby\'92s drive not two minutes before. The sharp jut of a wall\
accounted for the detachment of the wheel, which was now getting\
considerable attention from half a dozen curious chauffeurs. However,\
as they had left their cars blocking the road, a harsh, discordant din\
from those in the rear had been audible for some time, and added to\
the already violent confusion of the scene.\
\
A man in a long duster had dismounted from the wreck and now stood in\
the middle of the road, looking from the car to the tyre and from the\
tyre to the observers in a pleasant, puzzled way.\
\
\'93See!\'94 he explained. \'93It went in the ditch.\'94\
\
The fact was infinitely astonishing to him, and I recognized first the\
unusual quality of wonder, and then the man\'97it was the late patron of\
Gatsby\'92s library.\
\
\'93How\'92d it happen?\'94\
\
He shrugged his shoulders.\
\
\'93I know nothing whatever about mechanics,\'94 he said decisively.\
\
\'93But how did it happen? Did you run into the wall?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t ask me,\'94 said Owl Eyes, washing his hands of the whole\
matter. \'93I know very little about driving\'97next to nothing. It\
happened, and that\'92s all I know.\'94\
\
\'93Well, if you\'92re a poor driver you oughtn\'92t to try driving at night.\'94\
\
\'93But I wasn\'92t even trying,\'94 he explained indignantly, \'93I wasn\'92t even\
trying.\'94\
\
An awed hush fell upon the bystanders.\
\
\'93Do you want to commit suicide?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re lucky it was just a wheel! A bad driver and not even trying!\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t understand,\'94 explained the criminal. \'93I wasn\'92t driving.\
There\'92s another man in the car.\'94\
\
The shock that followed this declaration found voice in a sustained\
\'93Ah-h-h!\'94 as the door of the coup\'e9 swung slowly open. The crowd\'97it was\
now a crowd\'97stepped back involuntarily, and when the door had opened\
wide there was a ghostly pause. Then, very gradually, part by part, a\
pale, dangling individual stepped out of the wreck, pawing tentatively\
at the ground with a large uncertain dancing shoe.\
\
Blinded by the glare of the headlights and confused by the incessant\
groaning of the horns, the apparition stood swaying for a moment\
before he perceived the man in the duster.\
\
\'93Wha\'92s matter?\'94 he inquired calmly. \'93Did we run outa gas?\'94\
\
\'93Look!\'94\
\
Half a dozen fingers pointed at the amputated wheel\'97he stared at it\
for a moment, and then looked upward as though he suspected that it\
had dropped from the sky.\
\
\'93It came off,\'94 someone explained.\
\
He nodded.\
\
\'93At first I din\'92 notice we\'92d stopped.\'94\
\
A pause. Then, taking a long breath and straightening his shoulders,\
he remarked in a determined voice:\
\
\'93Wonder\'92ff tell me where there\'92s a gas\'92line station?\'94\
\
At least a dozen men, some of them a little better off than he was,\
explained to him that wheel and car were no longer joined by any\
physical bond.\
\
\'93Back out,\'94 he suggested after a moment. \'93Put her in reverse.\'94\
\
\'93But the wheel\'92s off!\'94\
\
He hesitated.\
\
\'93No harm in trying,\'94 he said.\
\
The caterwauling horns had reached a crescendo and I turned away and\
cut across the lawn toward home. I glanced back once. A wafer of a\
moon was shining over Gatsby\'92s house, making the night fine as before,\
and surviving the laughter and the sound of his still glowing garden.\
A sudden emptiness seemed to flow now from the windows and the great\
doors, endowing with complete isolation the figure of the host, who\
stood on the porch, his hand up in a formal gesture of farewell.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
Reading over what I have written so far, I see I have given the\
impression that the events of three nights several weeks apart were\
all that absorbed me. On the contrary, they were merely casual events\
in a crowded summer, and, until much later, they absorbed me\
infinitely less than my personal affairs.\
\
Most of the time I worked. In the early morning the sun threw my\
shadow westward as I hurried down the white chasms of lower New York\
to the Probity Trust. I knew the other clerks and young bond-salesmen\
by their first names, and lunched with them in dark, crowded\
restaurants on little pig sausages and mashed potatoes and coffee. I\
even had a short affair with a girl who lived in Jersey City and\
worked in the accounting department, but her brother began throwing\
mean looks in my direction, so when she went on her vacation in July I\
let it blow quietly away.\
\
I took dinner usually at the Yale Club\'97for some reason it was the\
gloomiest event of my day\'97and then I went upstairs to the library and\
studied investments and securities for a conscientious hour. There\
were generally a few rioters around, but they never came into the\
library, so it was a good place to work. After that, if the night was\
mellow, I strolled down Madison Avenue past the old Murray Hill Hotel,\
and over 33rd Street to the Pennsylvania Station.\
\
I began to like New York, the racy, adventurous feel of it at night,\
and the satisfaction that the constant flicker of men and women and\
machines gives to the restless eye. I liked to walk up Fifth Avenue\
and pick out romantic women from the crowd and imagine that in a few\
minutes I was going to enter into their lives, and no one would ever\
know or disapprove. Sometimes, in my mind, I followed them to their\
apartments on the corners of hidden streets, and they turned and\
smiled back at me before they faded through a door into warm\
darkness. At the enchanted metropolitan twilight I felt a haunting\
loneliness sometimes, and felt it in others\'97poor young clerks who\
loitered in front of windows waiting until it was time for a solitary\
restaurant dinner\'97young clerks in the dusk, wasting the most poignant\
moments of night and life.\
\
Again at eight o\'92clock, when the dark lanes of the Forties were lined\
five deep with throbbing taxicabs, bound for the theatre district, I\
felt a sinking in my heart. Forms leaned together in the taxis as they\
waited, and voices sang, and there was laughter from unheard jokes,\
and lighted cigarettes made unintelligible circles inside. Imagining\
that I, too, was hurrying towards gaiety and sharing their intimate\
excitement, I wished them well.\
\
For a while I lost sight of Jordan Baker, and then in midsummer I\
found her again. At first I was flattered to go places with her,\
because she was a golf champion, and everyone knew her name. Then it\
was something more. I wasn\'92t actually in love, but I felt a sort of\
tender curiosity. The bored haughty face that she turned to the world\
concealed something\'97most affectations conceal something eventually,\
even though they don\'92t in the beginning\'97and one day I found what it\
was. When we were on a house-party together up in Warwick, she left a\
borrowed car out in the rain with the top down, and then lied about\
it\'97and suddenly I remembered the story about her that had eluded me\
that night at Daisy\'92s. At her first big golf tournament there was a\
row that nearly reached the newspapers\'97a suggestion that she had moved\
her ball from a bad lie in the semifinal round. The thing approached\
the proportions of a scandal\'97then died away. A caddy retracted his\
statement, and the only other witness admitted that he might have been\
mistaken. The incident and the name had remained together in my mind.\
\
Jordan Baker instinctively avoided clever, shrewd men, and now I saw\
that this was because she felt safer on a plane where any divergence\
from a code would be thought impossible. She was incurably dishonest.\
She wasn\'92t able to endure being at a disadvantage and, given this\
unwillingness, I suppose she had begun dealing in subterfuges when she\
was very young in order to keep that cool, insolent smile turned to\
the world and yet satisfy the demands of her hard, jaunty body.\
\
It made no difference to me. Dishonesty in a woman is a thing you\
never blame deeply\'97I was casually sorry, and then I forgot. It was on\
that same house-party that we had a curious conversation about driving\
a car. It started because she passed so close to some workmen that our\
fender flicked a button on one man\'92s coat.\
\
\'93You\'92re a rotten driver,\'94 I protested. \'93Either you ought to be more\
careful, or you oughtn\'92t to drive at all.\'94\
\
\'93I am careful.\'94\
\
\'93No, you\'92re not.\'94\
\
\'93Well, other people are,\'94 she said lightly.\
\
\'93What\'92s that got to do with it?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92ll keep out of my way,\'94 she insisted. \'93It takes two to make an\
accident.\'94\
\
\'93Suppose you met somebody just as careless as yourself.\'94\
\
\'93I hope I never will,\'94 she answered. \'93I hate careless people. That\'92s\
why I like you.\'94\
\
Her grey, sun-strained eyes stared straight ahead, but she had\
deliberately shifted our relations, and for a moment I thought I loved\
her. But I am slow-thinking and full of interior rules that act as\
brakes on my desires, and I knew that first I had to get myself\
definitely out of that tangle back home. I\'92d been writing letters once\
a week and signing them: \'93Love, Nick,\'94 and all I could think of was\
how, when that certain girl played tennis, a faint moustache of\
perspiration appeared on her upper lip. Nevertheless there was a vague\
understanding that had to be tactfully broken off before I was free.\
\
Everyone suspects himself of at least one of the cardinal virtues, and\
this is mine: I am one of the few honest people that I have ever\
known.\
\
\
                                  IV\
\
On Sunday morning while church bells rang in the villages alongshore,\
the world and its mistress returned to Gatsby\'92s house and twinkled\
hilariously on his lawn.\
\
\'93He\'92s a bootlegger,\'94 said the young ladies, moving somewhere between\
his cocktails and his flowers. \'93One time he killed a man who had found\
out that he was nephew to Von Hindenburg and second cousin to the\
devil. Reach me a rose, honey, and pour me a last drop into that there\
crystal glass.\'94\
\
Once I wrote down on the empty spaces of a timetable the names of\
those who came to Gatsby\'92s house that summer. It is an old timetable\
now, disintegrating at its folds, and headed \'93This schedule in effect\
July 5th, 1922.\'94 But I can still read the grey names, and they will\
give you a better impression than my generalities of those who\
accepted Gatsby\'92s hospitality and paid him the subtle tribute of\
knowing nothing whatever about him.\
\
From East Egg, then, came the Chester Beckers and the Leeches, and a\
man named Bunsen, whom I knew at Yale, and Doctor Webster Civet, who\
was drowned last summer up in Maine. And the Hornbeams and the Willie\
Voltaires, and a whole clan named Blackbuck, who always gathered in a\
corner and flipped up their noses like goats at whosoever came\
near. And the Ismays and the Chrysties (or rather Hubert Auerbach and\
Mr. Chrystie\'92s wife), and Edgar Beaver, whose hair, they say, turned\
cotton-white one winter afternoon for no good reason at all.\
\
Clarence Endive was from East Egg, as I remember. He came only once,\
in white knickerbockers, and had a fight with a bum named Etty in the\
garden. From farther out on the Island came the Cheadles and the O.\
R. P. Schraeders, and the Stonewall Jackson Abrams of Georgia, and the\
Fishguards and the Ripley Snells. Snell was there three days before he\
went to the penitentiary, so drunk out on the gravel drive that\
Mrs. Ulysses Swett\'92s automobile ran over his right hand. The Dancies\
came, too, and S. B. Whitebait, who was well over sixty, and Maurice\
A. Flink, and the Hammerheads, and Beluga the tobacco importer, and\
Beluga\'92s girls.\
\
From West Egg came the Poles and the Mulreadys and Cecil Roebuck and\
Cecil Schoen and Gulick the State senator and Newton Orchid, who\
controlled Films Par Excellence, and Eckhaust and Clyde Cohen and Don\
S. Schwartz (the son) and Arthur McCarty, all connected with the\
movies in one way or another. And the Catlips and the Bembergs and G.\
Earl Muldoon, brother to that Muldoon who afterward strangled his\
wife. Da Fontano the promoter came there, and Ed Legros and James B.\
(\'93Rot-Gut\'94) Ferret and the De Jongs and Ernest Lilly\'97they came to\
gamble, and when Ferret wandered into the garden it meant he was\
cleaned out and Associated Traction would have to fluctuate profitably\
next day.\
\
A man named Klipspringer was there so often that he became known as\
\'93the boarder\'94\'97I doubt if he had any other home. Of theatrical people\
there were Gus Waize and Horace O\'92Donavan and Lester Myer and George\
Duckweed and Francis Bull. Also from New York were the Chromes and the\
Backhyssons and the Dennickers and Russel Betty and the Corrigans and\
the Kellehers and the Dewars and the Scullys and S. W. Belcher and the\
Smirkes and the young Quinns, divorced now, and Henry L. Palmetto, who\
killed himself by jumping in front of a subway train in Times Square.\
\
Benny McClenahan arrived always with four girls. They were never quite\
the same ones in physical person, but they were so identical one with\
another that it inevitably seemed they had been there before. I have\
forgotten their names\'97Jaqueline, I think, or else Consuela, or Gloria\
or Judy or June, and their last names were either the melodious names\
of flowers and months or the sterner ones of the great American\
capitalists whose cousins, if pressed, they would confess themselves\
to be.\
\
In addition to all these I can remember that Faustina O\'92Brien came\
there at least once and the Baedeker girls and young Brewer, who had\
his nose shot off in the war, and Mr. Albrucksburger and Miss Haag,\
his fianc\'e9e, and Ardita Fitz-Peters and Mr. P. Jewett, once head of\
the American Legion, and Miss Claudia Hip, with a man reputed to be\
her chauffeur, and a prince of something, whom we called Duke, and\
whose name, if I ever knew it, I have forgotten.\
\
All these people came to Gatsby\'92s house in the summer.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
At nine o\'92clock, one morning late in July, Gatsby\'92s gorgeous car\
lurched up the rocky drive to my door and gave out a burst of melody\
from its three-noted horn.\
\
It was the first time he had called on me, though I had gone to two of\
his parties, mounted in his hydroplane, and, at his urgent invitation,\
made frequent use of his beach.\
\
\'93Good morning, old sport. You\'92re having lunch with me today and I\
thought we\'92d ride up together.\'94\
\
He was balancing himself on the dashboard of his car with that\
resourcefulness of movement that is so peculiarly American\'97that comes,\
I suppose, with the absence of lifting work in youth and, even more,\
with the formless grace of our nervous, sporadic games. This quality\
was continually breaking through his punctilious manner in the shape\
of restlessness. He was never quite still; there was always a tapping\
foot somewhere or the impatient opening and closing of a hand.\
\
He saw me looking with admiration at his car.\
\
\'93It\'92s pretty, isn\'92t it, old sport?\'94 He jumped off to give me a better\
view. \'93Haven\'92t you ever seen it before?\'94\
\
I\'92d seen it. Everybody had seen it. It was a rich cream colour, bright\
with nickel, swollen here and there in its monstrous length with\
triumphant hatboxes and supper-boxes and toolboxes, and terraced with\
a labyrinth of windshields that mirrored a dozen suns. Sitting down\
behind many layers of glass in a sort of green leather conservatory,\
we started to town.\
\
I had talked with him perhaps half a dozen times in the past month and\
found, to my disappointment, that he had little to say. So my first\
impression, that he was a person of some undefined consequence, had\
gradually faded and he had become simply the proprietor of an\
elaborate roadhouse next door.\
\
And then came that disconcerting ride. We hadn\'92t reached West Egg\
village before Gatsby began leaving his elegant sentences unfinished\
and slapping himself indecisively on the knee of his caramel-coloured\
suit.\
\
\'93Look here, old sport,\'94 he broke out surprisingly, \'93what\'92s your\
opinion of me, anyhow?\'94\
\
A little overwhelmed, I began the generalized evasions which that\
question deserves.\
\
\'93Well, I\'92m going to tell you something about my life,\'94 he interrupted.\
\'93I don\'92t want you to get a wrong idea of me from all these stories you\
hear.\'94\
\
So he was aware of the bizarre accusations that flavoured conversation\
in his halls.\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you God\'92s truth.\'94 His right hand suddenly ordered divine\
retribution to stand by. \'93I am the son of some wealthy people in the\
Middle West\'97all dead now. I was brought up in America but educated at\
Oxford, because all my ancestors have been educated there for many\
years. It is a family tradition.\'94\
\
He looked at me sideways\'97and I knew why Jordan Baker had believed he\
was lying. He hurried the phrase \'93educated at Oxford,\'94 or swallowed\
it, or choked on it, as though it had bothered him before. And with\
this doubt, his whole statement fell to pieces, and I wondered if\
there wasn\'92t something a little sinister about him, after all.\
\
\'93What part of the Middle West?\'94 I inquired casually.\
\
\'93San Francisco.\'94\
\
\'93I see.\'94\
\
\'93My family all died and I came into a good deal of money.\'94\
\
His voice was solemn, as if the memory of that sudden extinction of a\
clan still haunted him. For a moment I suspected that he was pulling\
my leg, but a glance at him convinced me otherwise.\
\
\'93After that I lived like a young rajah in all the capitals of\
Europe\'97Paris, Venice, Rome\'97collecting jewels, chiefly rubies, hunting\
big game, painting a little, things for myself only, and trying to\
forget something very sad that had happened to me long ago.\'94\
\
With an effort I managed to restrain my incredulous laughter. The very\
phrases were worn so threadbare that they evoked no image except that\
of a turbaned \'93character\'94 leaking sawdust at every pore as he pursued\
a tiger through the Bois de Boulogne.\
\
\'93Then came the war, old sport. It was a great relief, and I tried very\
hard to die, but I seemed to bear an enchanted life. I accepted a\
commission as first lieutenant when it began. In the Argonne Forest I\
took the remains of my machine-gun battalion so far forward that there\
was a half mile gap on either side of us where the infantry couldn\'92t\
advance. We stayed there two days and two nights, a hundred and thirty\
men with sixteen Lewis guns, and when the infantry came up at last\
they found the insignia of three German divisions among the piles of\
dead. I was promoted to be a major, and every Allied government gave\
me a decoration\'97even Montenegro, little Montenegro down on the\
Adriatic Sea!\'94\
\
Little Montenegro! He lifted up the words and nodded at them\'97with his\
smile. The smile comprehended Montenegro\'92s troubled history and\
sympathized with the brave struggles of the Montenegrin people. It\
appreciated fully the chain of national circumstances which had\
elicited this tribute from Montenegro\'92s warm little heart. My\
incredulity was submerged in fascination now; it was like skimming\
hastily through a dozen magazines.\
\
He reached in his pocket, and a piece of metal, slung on a ribbon,\
fell into my palm.\
\
\'93That\'92s the one from Montenegro.\'94\
\
To my astonishment, the thing had an authentic look. \'93Orderi di\
Danilo,\'94 ran the circular legend, \'93Montenegro, Nicolas Rex.\'94\
\
\'93Turn it.\'94\
\
\'93Major Jay Gatsby,\'94 I read, \'93For Valour Extraordinary.\'94\
\
\'93Here\'92s another thing I always carry. A souvenir of Oxford days. It\
was taken in Trinity Quad\'97the man on my left is now the Earl of\
Doncaster.\'94\
\
It was a photograph of half a dozen young men in blazers loafing in an\
archway through which were visible a host of spires. There was Gatsby,\
looking a little, not much, younger\'97with a cricket bat in his hand.\
\
Then it was all true. I saw the skins of tigers flaming in his palace\
on the Grand Canal; I saw him opening a chest of rubies to ease, with\
their crimson-lighted depths, the gnawings of his broken heart.\
\
\'93I\'92m going to make a big request of you today,\'94 he said, pocketing his\
souvenirs with satisfaction, \'93so I thought you ought to know something\
about me. I didn\'92t want you to think I was just some nobody. You see,\
I usually find myself among strangers because I drift here and there\
trying to forget the sad things that happened to me.\'94 He hesitated.\
\'93You\'92ll hear about it this afternoon.\'94\
\
\'93At lunch?\'94\
\
\'93No, this afternoon. I happened to find out that you\'92re taking Miss\
Baker to tea.\'94\
\
\'93Do you mean you\'92re in love with Miss Baker?\'94\
\
\'93No, old sport, I\'92m not. But Miss Baker has kindly consented to speak\
to you about this matter.\'94\
\
I hadn\'92t the faintest idea what \'93this matter\'94 was, but I was more\
annoyed than interested. I hadn\'92t asked Jordan to tea in order to\
discuss Mr. Jay Gatsby. I was sure the request would be something\
utterly fantastic, and for a moment I was sorry I\'92d ever set foot upon\
his overpopulated lawn.\
\
He wouldn\'92t say another word. His correctness grew on him as we neared\
the city. We passed Port Roosevelt, where there was a glimpse of\
red-belted oceangoing ships, and sped along a cobbled slum lined with\
the dark, undeserted saloons of the faded-gilt nineteen-hundreds.\
Then the valley of ashes opened out on both sides of us, and I had a\
glimpse of Mrs. Wilson straining at the garage pump with panting\
vitality as we went by.\
\
With fenders spread like wings we scattered light through half\
Astoria\'97only half, for as we twisted among the pillars of the elevated\
I heard the familiar \'93jug-jug-spat!\'94 of a motorcycle, and a frantic\
policeman rode alongside.\
\
\'93All right, old sport,\'94 called Gatsby. We slowed down. Taking a white\
card from his wallet, he waved it before the man\'92s eyes.\
\
\'93Right you are,\'94 agreed the policeman, tipping his cap. \'93Know you next\
time, Mr. Gatsby. Excuse me!\'94\
\
\'93What was that?\'94 I inquired. \'93The picture of Oxford?\'94\
\
\'93I was able to do the commissioner a favour once, and he sends me a\
Christmas card every year.\'94\
\
Over the great bridge, with the sunlight through the girders making a\
constant flicker upon the moving cars, with the city rising up across\
the river in white heaps and sugar lumps all built with a wish out of\
nonolfactory money. The city seen from the Queensboro Bridge is always\
the city seen for the first time, in its first wild promise of all the\
mystery and the beauty in the world.\
\
A dead man passed us in a hearse heaped with blooms, followed by two\
carriages with drawn blinds, and by more cheerful carriages for\
friends. The friends looked out at us with the tragic eyes and short\
upper lips of southeastern Europe, and I was glad that the sight of\
Gatsby\'92s splendid car was included in their sombre holiday. As we\
crossed Blackwell\'92s Island a limousine passed us, driven by a white\
chauffeur, in which sat three modish negroes, two bucks and a girl. I\
laughed aloud as the yolks of their eyeballs rolled toward us in\
haughty rivalry.\
\
\'93Anything can happen now that we\'92ve slid over this bridge,\'94 I thought;\
\'93anything at all \'85\'94\
\
Even Gatsby could happen, without any particular wonder.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
Roaring noon. In a well-fanned Forty-second Street cellar I met Gatsby\
for lunch. Blinking away the brightness of the street outside, my eyes\
picked him out obscurely in the anteroom, talking to another man.\
\
\'93Mr. Carraway, this is my friend Mr. Wolfshiem.\'94\
\
A small, flat-nosed Jew raised his large head and regarded me with two\
fine growths of hair which luxuriated in either nostril. After a\
moment I discovered his tiny eyes in the half-darkness.\
\
\'93\'97So I took one look at him,\'94 said Mr. Wolfshiem, shaking my hand\
earnestly, \'93and what do you think I did?\'94\
\
\'93What?\'94 I inquired politely.\
\
But evidently he was not addressing me, for he dropped my hand and\
covered Gatsby with his expressive nose.\
\
\'93I handed the money to Katspaugh and I said: \'91All right, Katspaugh,\
don\'92t pay him a penny till he shuts his mouth.\'92 He shut it then and\
there.\'94\
\
Gatsby took an arm of each of us and moved forward into the\
restaurant, whereupon Mr. Wolfshiem swallowed a new sentence he was\
starting and lapsed into a somnambulatory abstraction.\
\
\'93Highballs?\'94 asked the head waiter.\
\
\'93This is a nice restaurant here,\'94 said Mr. Wolfshiem, looking at the\
presbyterian nymphs on the ceiling. \'93But I like across the street\
better!\'94\
\
\'93Yes, highballs,\'94 agreed Gatsby, and then to Mr. Wolfshiem: \'93It\'92s too\
hot over there.\'94\
\
\'93Hot and small\'97yes,\'94 said Mr. Wolfshiem, \'93but full of memories.\'94\
\
\'93What place is that?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93The old Metropole.\'94\
\
\'93The old Metropole,\'94 brooded Mr. Wolfshiem gloomily. \'93Filled with\
faces dead and gone. Filled with friends gone now forever. I can\'92t\
forget so long as I live the night they shot Rosy Rosenthal there. It\
was six of us at the table, and Rosy had eat and drunk a lot all\
evening. When it was almost morning the waiter came up to him with a\
funny look and says somebody wants to speak to him outside. \'91All\
right,\'92 says Rosy, and begins to get up, and I pulled him down in his\
chair.\
\
\'93\uc0\u8202 \'91Let the bastards come in here if they want you, Rosy, but don\'92t\
you, so help me, move outside this room.\'92\
\
\'93It was four o\'92clock in the morning then, and if we\'92d of raised the\
blinds we\'92d of seen daylight.\'94\
\
\'93Did he go?\'94 I asked innocently.\
\
\'93Sure he went.\'94 Mr. Wolfshiem\'92s nose flashed at me indignantly. \'93He\
turned around in the door and says: \'91Don\'92t let that waiter take away\
my coffee!\'92 Then he went out on the sidewalk, and they shot him three\
times in his full belly and drove away.\'94\
\
\'93Four of them were electrocuted,\'94 I said, remembering.\
\
\'93Five, with Becker.\'94 His nostrils turned to me in an interested way.\
\'93I understand you\'92re looking for a business gonnegtion.\'94\
\
The juxtaposition of these two remarks was startling. Gatsby answered\
for me:\
\
\'93Oh, no,\'94 he exclaimed, \'93this isn\'92t the man.\'94\
\
\'93No?\'94 Mr. Wolfshiem seemed disappointed.\
\
\'93This is just a friend. I told you we\'92d talk about that some other\
time.\'94\
\
\'93I beg your pardon,\'94 said Mr. Wolfshiem, \'93I had a wrong man.\'94\
\
A succulent hash arrived, and Mr. Wolfshiem, forgetting the more\
sentimental atmosphere of the old Metropole, began to eat with\
ferocious delicacy. His eyes, meanwhile, roved very slowly all around\
the room\'97he completed the arc by turning to inspect the people\
directly behind. I think that, except for my presence, he would have\
taken one short glance beneath our own table.\
\
\'93Look here, old sport,\'94 said Gatsby, leaning toward me, \'93I\'92m afraid I\
made you a little angry this morning in the car.\'94\
\
There was the smile again, but this time I held out against it.\
\
\'93I don\'92t like mysteries,\'94 I answered, \'93and I don\'92t understand why you\
won\'92t come out frankly and tell me what you want. Why has it all got\
to come through Miss Baker?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, it\'92s nothing underhand,\'94 he assured me. \'93Miss Baker\'92s a great\
sportswoman, you know, and she\'92d never do anything that wasn\'92t all\
right.\'94\
\
Suddenly he looked at his watch, jumped up, and hurried from the room,\
leaving me with Mr. Wolfshiem at the table.\
\
\'93He has to telephone,\'94 said Mr. Wolfshiem, following him with his\
eyes. \'93Fine fellow, isn\'92t he? Handsome to look at and a perfect\
gentleman.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s an Oggsford man.\'94\
\
\'93Oh!\'94\
\
\'93He went to Oggsford College in England. You know Oggsford College?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve heard of it.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s one of the most famous colleges in the world.\'94\
\
\'93Have you known Gatsby for a long time?\'94 I inquired.\
\
\'93Several years,\'94 he answered in a gratified way. \'93I made the pleasure\
of his acquaintance just after the war. But I knew I had discovered a\
man of fine breeding after I talked with him an hour. I said to\
myself: \'91There\'92s the kind of man you\'92d like to take home and introduce\
to your mother and sister.\'92\uc0\u8202 \'94 He paused. \'93I see you\'92re looking at my\
cuff buttons.\'94\
\
I hadn\'92t been looking at them, but I did now. They were composed of\
oddly familiar pieces of ivory.\
\
\'93Finest specimens of human molars,\'94 he informed me.\
\
\'93Well!\'94 I inspected them. \'93That\'92s a very interesting idea.\'94\
\
\'93Yeah.\'94 He flipped his sleeves up under his coat. \'93Yeah, Gatsby\'92s very\
careful about women. He would never so much as look at a friend\'92s\
wife.\'94\
\
When the subject of this instinctive trust returned to the table and\
sat down Mr. Wolfshiem drank his coffee with a jerk and got to his\
feet.\
\
\'93I have enjoyed my lunch,\'94 he said, \'93and I\'92m going to run off from you\
two young men before I outstay my welcome.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t hurry Meyer,\'94 said Gatsby, without enthusiasm. Mr. Wolfshiem\
raised his hand in a sort of benediction.\
\
\'93You\'92re very polite, but I belong to another generation,\'94 he announced\
solemnly. \'93You sit here and discuss your sports and your young ladies\
and your\'97\'94 He supplied an imaginary noun with another wave of his\
hand. \'93As for me, I am fifty years old, and I won\'92t impose myself on\
you any longer.\'94\
\
As he shook hands and turned away his tragic nose was trembling. I\
wondered if I had said anything to offend him.\
\
\'93He becomes very sentimental sometimes,\'94 explained Gatsby. \'93This is\
one of his sentimental days. He\'92s quite a character around New York\'97a\
denizen of Broadway.\'94\
\
\'93Who is he, anyhow, an actor?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93A dentist?\'94\
\
\'93Meyer Wolfshiem? No, he\'92s a gambler.\'94 Gatsby hesitated, then added,\
coolly: \'93He\'92s the man who fixed the World\'92s Series back in 1919.\'94\
\
\'93Fixed the World\'92s Series?\'94 I repeated.\
\
The idea staggered me. I remembered, of course, that the World\'92s\
Series had been fixed in 1919, but if I had thought of it at all I\
would have thought of it as a thing that merely happened, the end of\
some inevitable chain. It never occurred to me that one man could\
start to play with the faith of fifty million people\'97with the\
single-mindedness of a burglar blowing a safe.\
\
\'93How did he happen to do that?\'94 I asked after a minute.\
\
\'93He just saw the opportunity.\'94\
\
\'93Why isn\'92t he in jail?\'94\
\
\'93They can\'92t get him, old sport. He\'92s a smart man.\'94\
\
I insisted on paying the check. As the waiter brought my change I\
caught sight of Tom Buchanan across the crowded room.\
\
\'93Come along with me for a minute,\'94 I said; \'93I\'92ve got to say hello to\
someone.\'94\
\
When he saw us Tom jumped up and took half a dozen steps in our\
direction.\
\
\'93Where\'92ve you been?\'94 he demanded eagerly. \'93Daisy\'92s furious because you\
haven\'92t called up.\'94\
\
\'93This is Mr. Gatsby, Mr. Buchanan.\'94\
\
They shook hands briefly, and a strained, unfamiliar look of\
embarrassment came over Gatsby\'92s face.\
\
\'93How\'92ve you been, anyhow?\'94 demanded Tom of me. \'93How\'92d you happen to\
come up this far to eat?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been having lunch with Mr. Gatsby.\'94\
\
I turned toward Mr. Gatsby, but he was no longer there.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
One October day in nineteen-seventeen\'97\
\
(said Jordan Baker that afternoon, sitting up very straight on a\
straight chair in the tea-garden at the Plaza Hotel)\
\
\'97I was walking along from one place to another, half on the sidewalks\
and half on the lawns. I was happier on the lawns because I had on\
shoes from England with rubber knobs on the soles that bit into the\
soft ground. I had on a new plaid skirt also that blew a little in the\
wind, and whenever this happened the red, white, and blue banners in\
front of all the houses stretched out stiff and said tut-tut-tut-tut,\
in a disapproving way.\
\
The largest of the banners and the largest of the lawns belonged to\
Daisy Fay\'92s house. She was just eighteen, two years older than me, and\
by far the most popular of all the young girls in Louisville. She\
dressed in white, and had a little white roadster, and all day long\
the telephone rang in her house and excited young officers from Camp\
Taylor demanded the privilege of monopolizing her that\
night. \'93Anyways, for an hour!\'94\
\
When I came opposite her house that morning her white roadster was\
beside the kerb, and she was sitting in it with a lieutenant I had\
never seen before. They were so engrossed in each other that she\
didn\'92t see me until I was five feet away.\
\
\'93Hello, Jordan,\'94 she called unexpectedly. \'93Please come here.\'94\
\
I was flattered that she wanted to speak to me, because of all the\
older girls I admired her most. She asked me if I was going to the Red\
Cross to make bandages. I was. Well, then, would I tell them that she\
couldn\'92t come that day? The officer looked at Daisy while she was\
speaking, in a way that every young girl wants to be looked at\
sometime, and because it seemed romantic to me I have remembered the\
incident ever since. His name was Jay Gatsby, and I didn\'92t lay eyes on\
him again for over four years\'97even after I\'92d met him on Long Island I\
didn\'92t realize it was the same man.\
\
That was nineteen-seventeen. By the next year I had a few beaux\
myself, and I began to play in tournaments, so I didn\'92t see Daisy very\
often. She went with a slightly older crowd\'97when she went with anyone\
at all. Wild rumours were circulating about her\'97how her mother had\
found her packing her bag one winter night to go to New York and say\
goodbye to a soldier who was going overseas. She was effectually\
prevented, but she wasn\'92t on speaking terms with her family for\
several weeks. After that she didn\'92t play around with the soldiers any\
more, but only with a few flat-footed, shortsighted young men in town,\
who couldn\'92t get into the army at all.\
\
By the next autumn she was gay again, gay as ever. She had a d\'e9but\
after the armistice, and in February she was presumably engaged to a\
man from New Orleans. In June she married Tom Buchanan of Chicago,\
with more pomp and circumstance than Louisville ever knew before. He\
came down with a hundred people in four private cars, and hired a\
whole floor of the Muhlbach Hotel, and the day before the wedding he\
gave her a string of pearls valued at three hundred and fifty thousand\
dollars.\
\
I was a bridesmaid. I came into her room half an hour before the\
bridal dinner, and found her lying on her bed as lovely as the June\
night in her flowered dress\'97and as drunk as a monkey. She had a bottle\
of Sauterne in one hand and a letter in the other.\
\
\'93\uc0\u8202 \'92Gratulate me,\'94 she muttered. \'93Never had a drink before, but oh how\
I do enjoy it.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, Daisy?\'94\
\
I was scared, I can tell you; I\'92d never seen a girl like that before.\
\
\'93Here, dearies.\'94 She groped around in a wastebasket she had with her\
on the bed and pulled out the string of pearls. \'93Take \'92em downstairs\
and give \'92em back to whoever they belong to. Tell \'92em all Daisy\'92s\
change\'92 her mine. Say: \'91Daisy\'92s change\'92 her mine!\'92\uc0\u8202 \'94\
\
She began to cry\'97she cried and cried. I rushed out and found her\
mother\'92s maid, and we locked the door and got her into a cold bath.\
She wouldn\'92t let go of the letter. She took it into the tub with her\
and squeezed it up in a wet ball, and only let me leave it in the\
soap-dish when she saw that it was coming to pieces like snow.\
\
But she didn\'92t say another word. We gave her spirits of ammonia and\
put ice on her forehead and hooked her back into her dress, and half\
an hour later, when we walked out of the room, the pearls were around\
her neck and the incident was over. Next day at five o\'92clock she\
married Tom Buchanan without so much as a shiver, and started off on a\
three months\'92 trip to the South Seas.\
\
I saw them in Santa Barbara when they came back, and I thought I\'92d\
never seen a girl so mad about her husband. If he left the room for a\
minute she\'92d look around uneasily, and say: \'93Where\'92s Tom gone?\'94 and\
wear the most abstracted expression until she saw him coming in the\
door. She used to sit on the sand with his head in her lap by the\
hour, rubbing her fingers over his eyes and looking at him with\
unfathomable delight. It was touching to see them together\'97it made you\
laugh in a hushed, fascinated way. That was in August. A week after I\
left Santa Barbara Tom ran into a wagon on the Ventura road one night,\
and ripped a front wheel off his car. The girl who was with him got\
into the papers, too, because her arm was broken\'97she was one of the\
chambermaids in the Santa Barbara Hotel.\
\
The next April Daisy had her little girl, and they went to France for\
a year. I saw them one spring in Cannes, and later in Deauville, and\
then they came back to Chicago to settle down. Daisy was popular in\
Chicago, as you know. They moved with a fast crowd, all of them young\
and rich and wild, but she came out with an absolutely perfect\
reputation. Perhaps because she doesn\'92t drink. It\'92s a great advantage\
not to drink among hard-drinking people. You can hold your tongue and,\
moreover, you can time any little irregularity of your own so that\
everybody else is so blind that they don\'92t see or care. Perhaps Daisy\
never went in for amour at all\'97and yet there\'92s something in that voice\
of hers \'85\
\
Well, about six weeks ago, she heard the name Gatsby for the first\
time in years. It was when I asked you\'97do you remember?\'97if you knew\
Gatsby in West Egg. After you had gone home she came into my room and\
woke me up, and said: \'93What Gatsby?\'94 and when I described him\'97I was\
half asleep\'97she said in the strangest voice that it must be the man\
she used to know. It wasn\'92t until then that I connected this Gatsby\
with the officer in her white car.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
When Jordan Baker had finished telling all this we had left the Plaza\
for half an hour and were driving in a victoria through Central Park.\
The sun had gone down behind the tall apartments of the movie stars in\
the West Fifties, and the clear voices of children, already gathered\
like crickets on the grass, rose through the hot twilight:\
\
 \'93I\'92m the Sheik of Araby. Your love belongs to me. At night when\
 you\'92re asleep Into your tent I\'92ll creep\'97\'94\
\
\'93It was a strange coincidence,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93But it wasn\'92t a coincidence at all.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93Gatsby bought that house so that Daisy would be just across the bay.\'94\
\
Then it had not been merely the stars to which he had aspired on that\
June night. He came alive to me, delivered suddenly from the womb of\
his purposeless splendour.\
\
\'93He wants to know,\'94 continued Jordan, \'93if you\'92ll invite Daisy to your\
house some afternoon and then let him come over.\'94\
\
The modesty of the demand shook me. He had waited five years and\
bought a mansion where he dispensed starlight to casual moths\'97so that\
he could \'93come over\'94 some afternoon to a stranger\'92s garden.\
\
\'93Did I have to know all this before he could ask such a little thing?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s afraid, he\'92s waited so long. He thought you might be\
offended. You see, he\'92s regular tough underneath it all.\'94\
\
Something worried me.\
\
\'93Why didn\'92t he ask you to arrange a meeting?\'94\
\
\'93He wants her to see his house,\'94 she explained. \'93And your house is\
right next door.\'94\
\
\'93Oh!\'94\
\
\'93I think he half expected her to wander into one of his parties, some\
night,\'94 went on Jordan, \'93but she never did. Then he began asking\
people casually if they knew her, and I was the first one he found. It\
was that night he sent for me at his dance, and you should have heard\
the elaborate way he worked up to it. Of course, I immediately\
suggested a luncheon in New York\'97and I thought he\'92d go mad:\
\
\'93\uc0\u8202 \'91I don\'92t want to do anything out of the way!\'92 he kept saying. \'91I\
want to see her right next door.\'92\
\
\'93When I said you were a particular friend of Tom\'92s, he started to\
abandon the whole idea. He doesn\'92t know very much about Tom, though he\
says he\'92s read a Chicago paper for years just on the chance of\
catching a glimpse of Daisy\'92s name.\'94\
\
It was dark now, and as we dipped under a little bridge I put my arm\
around Jordan\'92s golden shoulder and drew her toward me and asked her\
to dinner. Suddenly I wasn\'92t thinking of Daisy and Gatsby any more,\
but of this clean, hard, limited person, who dealt in universal\
scepticism, and who leaned back jauntily just within the circle of my\
arm. A phrase began to beat in my ears with a sort of heady\
excitement: \'93There are only the pursued, the pursuing, the busy, and\
the tired.\'94\
\
\'93And Daisy ought to have something in her life,\'94 murmured Jordan to\
me.\
\
\'93Does she want to see Gatsby?\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s not to know about it. Gatsby doesn\'92t want her to know. You\'92re\
just supposed to invite her to tea.\'94\
\
We passed a barrier of dark trees, and then the fa\'e7ade of Fifty-Ninth\
Street, a block of delicate pale light, beamed down into the park.\
Unlike Gatsby and Tom Buchanan, I had no girl whose disembodied face\
floated along the dark cornices and blinding signs, and so I drew up\
the girl beside me, tightening my arms. Her wan, scornful mouth\
smiled, and so I drew her up again closer, this time to my face.\
\
\
                                  V\
\
When I came home to West Egg that night I was afraid for a moment that\
my house was on fire. Two o\'92clock and the whole corner of the\
peninsula was blazing with light, which fell unreal on the shrubbery\
and made thin elongating glints upon the roadside wires. Turning a\
corner, I saw that it was Gatsby\'92s house, lit from tower to cellar.\
\
At first I thought it was another party, a wild rout that had resolved\
itself into \'93hide-and-go-seek\'94 or \'93sardines-in-the-box\'94 with all the\
house thrown open to the game. But there wasn\'92t a sound. Only wind in\
the trees, which blew the wires and made the lights go off and on\
again as if the house had winked into the darkness. As my taxi groaned\
away I saw Gatsby walking toward me across his lawn.\
\
\'93Your place looks like the World\'92s Fair,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Does it?\'94 He turned his eyes toward it absently. \'93I have been\
glancing into some of the rooms. Let\'92s go to Coney Island, old\
sport. In my car.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s too late.\'94\
\
\'93Well, suppose we take a plunge in the swimming pool? I haven\'92t made\
use of it all summer.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got to go to bed.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
He waited, looking at me with suppressed eagerness.\
\
\'93I talked with Miss Baker,\'94 I said after a moment. \'93I\'92m going to call\
up Daisy tomorrow and invite her over here to tea.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, that\'92s all right,\'94 he said carelessly. \'93I don\'92t want to put you\
to any trouble.\'94\
\
\'93What day would suit you?\'94\
\
\'93What day would suit you?\'94 he corrected me quickly. \'93I don\'92t want to\
put you to any trouble, you see.\'94\
\
\'93How about the day after tomorrow?\'94\
\
He considered for a moment. Then, with reluctance: \'93I want to get the\
grass cut,\'94 he said.\
\
We both looked down at the grass\'97there was a sharp line where my\
ragged lawn ended and the darker, well-kept expanse of his began. I\
suspected that he meant my grass.\
\
\'93There\'92s another little thing,\'94 he said uncertainly, and hesitated.\
\
\'93Would you rather put it off for a few days?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Oh, it isn\'92t about that. At least\'97\'94 He fumbled with a series of\
beginnings. \'93Why, I thought\'97why, look here, old sport, you don\'92t make\
much money, do you?\'94\
\
\'93Not very much.\'94\
\
This seemed to reassure him and he continued more confidently.\
\
\'93I thought you didn\'92t, if you\'92ll pardon my\'97you see, I carry on a\
little business on the side, a sort of side line, you understand. And\
I thought that if you don\'92t make very much\'97You\'92re selling bonds,\
aren\'92t you, old sport?\'94\
\
\'93Trying to.\'94\
\
\'93Well, this would interest you. It wouldn\'92t take up much of your time\
and you might pick up a nice bit of money. It happens to be a rather\
confidential sort of thing.\'94\
\
I realize now that under different circumstances that conversation\
might have been one of the crises of my life. But, because the offer\
was obviously and tactlessly for a service to be rendered, I had no\
choice except to cut him off there.\
\
\'93I\'92ve got my hands full,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m much obliged but I couldn\'92t\
take on any more work.\'94\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t have to do any business with Wolfshiem.\'94 Evidently he\
thought that I was shying away from the \'93gonnegtion\'94 mentioned at\
lunch, but I assured him he was wrong. He waited a moment longer,\
hoping I\'92d begin a conversation, but I was too absorbed to be\
responsive, so he went unwillingly home.\
\
The evening had made me lightheaded and happy; I think I walked into a\
deep sleep as I entered my front door. So I don\'92t know whether or not\
Gatsby went to Coney Island, or for how many hours he \'93glanced into\
rooms\'94 while his house blazed gaudily on. I called up Daisy from the\
office next morning, and invited her to come to tea.\
\
\'93Don\'92t bring Tom,\'94 I warned her.\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t bring Tom.\'94\
\
\'93Who is \'91Tom\'92?\'94 she asked innocently.\
\
The day agreed upon was pouring rain. At eleven o\'92clock a man in a\
raincoat, dragging a lawn-mower, tapped at my front door and said that\
Mr. Gatsby had sent him over to cut my grass. This reminded me that I\
had forgotten to tell my Finn to come back, so I drove into West Egg\
Village to search for her among soggy whitewashed alleys and to buy\
some cups and lemons and flowers.\
\
The flowers were unnecessary, for at two o\'92clock a greenhouse arrived\
from Gatsby\'92s, with innumerable receptacles to contain it. An hour\
later the front door opened nervously, and Gatsby in a white flannel\
suit, silver shirt, and gold-coloured tie, hurried in. He was pale,\
and there were dark signs of sleeplessness beneath his eyes.\
\
\'93Is everything all right?\'94 he asked immediately.\
\
\'93The grass looks fine, if that\'92s what you mean.\'94\
\
\'93What grass?\'94 he inquired blankly. \'93Oh, the grass in the yard.\'94 He\
looked out the window at it, but, judging from his expression, I don\'92t\
believe he saw a thing.\
\
\'93Looks very good,\'94 he remarked vaguely. \'93One of the papers said they\
thought the rain would stop about four. I think it was The\
Journal. Have you got everything you need in the shape of\'97of tea?\'94\
\
I took him into the pantry, where he looked a little reproachfully at\
the Finn. Together we scrutinized the twelve lemon cakes from the\
delicatessen shop.\
\
\'93Will they do?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Of course, of course! They\'92re fine!\'94 and he added hollowly, \'93\'85 old\
sport.\'94\
\
The rain cooled about half-past three to a damp mist, through which\
occasional thin drops swam like dew. Gatsby looked with vacant eyes\
through a copy of Clay\'92s Economics, starting at the Finnish tread that\
shook the kitchen floor, and peering towards the bleared windows from\
time to time as if a series of invisible but alarming happenings were\
taking place outside. Finally he got up and informed me, in an\
uncertain voice, that he was going home.\
\
\'93Why\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Nobody\'92s coming to tea. It\'92s too late!\'94 He looked at his watch as if\
there was some pressing demand on his time elsewhere. \'93I can\'92t wait\
all day.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be silly; it\'92s just two minutes to four.\'94\
\
He sat down miserably, as if I had pushed him, and simultaneously\
there was the sound of a motor turning into my lane. We both jumped\
up, and, a little harrowed myself, I went out into the yard.\
\
Under the dripping bare lilac-trees a large open car was coming up the\
drive. It stopped. Daisy\'92s face, tipped sideways beneath a\
three-cornered lavender hat, looked out at me with a bright ecstatic\
smile.\
\
\'93Is this absolutely where you live, my dearest one?\'94\
\
The exhilarating ripple of her voice was a wild tonic in the rain. I\
had to follow the sound of it for a moment, up and down, with my ear\
alone, before any words came through. A damp streak of hair lay like a\
dash of blue paint across her cheek, and her hand was wet with\
glistening drops as I took it to help her from the car.\
\
\'93Are you in love with me,\'94 she said low in my ear, \'93or why did I have\
to come alone?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the secret of Castle Rackrent. Tell your chauffeur to go far\
away and spend an hour.\'94\
\
\'93Come back in an hour, Ferdie.\'94 Then in a grave murmur: \'93His name is\
Ferdie.\'94\
\
\'93Does the gasoline affect his nose?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 she said innocently. \'93Why?\'94\
\
We went in. To my overwhelming surprise the living-room was deserted.\
\
\'93Well, that\'92s funny,\'94 I exclaimed.\
\
\'93What\'92s funny?\'94\
\
She turned her head as there was a light dignified knocking at the\
front door. I went out and opened it. Gatsby, pale as death, with his\
hands plunged like weights in his coat pockets, was standing in a\
puddle of water glaring tragically into my eyes.\
\
With his hands still in his coat pockets he stalked by me into the\
hall, turned sharply as if he were on a wire, and disappeared into the\
living-room. It wasn\'92t a bit funny. Aware of the loud beating of my\
own heart I pulled the door to against the increasing rain.\
\
For half a minute there wasn\'92t a sound. Then from the living-room I\
heard a sort of choking murmur and part of a laugh, followed by\
Daisy\'92s voice on a clear artificial note:\
\
\'93I certainly am awfully glad to see you again.\'94\
\
A pause; it endured horribly. I had nothing to do in the hall, so I\
went into the room.\
\
Gatsby, his hands still in his pockets, was reclining against the\
mantelpiece in a strained counterfeit of perfect ease, even of\
boredom. His head leaned back so far that it rested against the face\
of a defunct mantelpiece clock, and from this position his distraught\
eyes stared down at Daisy, who was sitting, frightened but graceful,\
on the edge of a stiff chair.\
\
\'93We\'92ve met before,\'94 muttered Gatsby. His eyes glanced momentarily at\
me, and his lips parted with an abortive attempt at a laugh. Luckily\
the clock took this moment to tilt dangerously at the pressure of his\
head, whereupon he turned and caught it with trembling fingers, and\
set it back in place. Then he sat down, rigidly, his elbow on the arm\
of the sofa and his chin in his hand.\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry about the clock,\'94 he said.\
\
My own face had now assumed a deep tropical burn. I couldn\'92t muster up\
a single commonplace out of the thousand in my head.\
\
\'93It\'92s an old clock,\'94 I told them idiotically.\
\
I think we all believed for a moment that it had smashed in pieces on\
the floor.\
\
\'93We haven\'92t met for many years,\'94 said Daisy, her voice as\
matter-of-fact as it could ever be.\
\
\'93Five years next November.\'94\
\
The automatic quality of Gatsby\'92s answer set us all back at least\
another minute. I had them both on their feet with the desperate\
suggestion that they help me make tea in the kitchen when the demoniac\
Finn brought it in on a tray.\
\
Amid the welcome confusion of cups and cakes a certain physical\
decency established itself. Gatsby got himself into a shadow and,\
while Daisy and I talked, looked conscientiously from one to the other\
of us with tense, unhappy eyes. However, as calmness wasn\'92t an end in\
itself, I made an excuse at the first possible moment, and got to my\
feet.\
\
\'93Where are you going?\'94 demanded Gatsby in immediate alarm.\
\
\'93I\'92ll be back.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got to speak to you about something before you go.\'94\
\
He followed me wildly into the kitchen, closed the door, and\
whispered: \'93Oh, God!\'94 in a miserable way.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93This is a terrible mistake,\'94 he said, shaking his head from side to\
side, \'93a terrible, terrible mistake.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re just embarrassed, that\'92s all,\'94 and luckily I added: \'93Daisy\'92s\
embarrassed too.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s embarrassed?\'94 he repeated incredulously.\
\
\'93Just as much as you are.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk so loud.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re acting like a little boy,\'94 I broke out impatiently. \'93Not only\
that, but you\'92re rude. Daisy\'92s sitting in there all alone.\'94\
\
He raised his hand to stop my words, looked at me with unforgettable\
reproach, and, opening the door cautiously, went back into the other\
room.\
\
I walked out the back way\'97just as Gatsby had when he had made his\
nervous circuit of the house half an hour before\'97and ran for a huge\
black knotted tree, whose massed leaves made a fabric against the\
rain. Once more it was pouring, and my irregular lawn, well-shaved by\
Gatsby\'92s gardener, abounded in small muddy swamps and prehistoric\
marshes. There was nothing to look at from under the tree except\
Gatsby\'92s enormous house, so I stared at it, like Kant at his church\
steeple, for half an hour. A brewer had built it early in the \'93period\'94\
craze, a decade before, and there was a story that he\'92d agreed to pay\
five years\'92 taxes on all the neighbouring cottages if the owners would\
have their roofs thatched with straw. Perhaps their refusal took the\
heart out of his plan to Found a Family\'97he went into an immediate\
decline. His children sold his house with the black wreath still on\
the door. Americans, while willing, even eager, to be serfs, have\
always been obstinate about being peasantry.\
\
After half an hour, the sun shone again, and the grocer\'92s automobile\
rounded Gatsby\'92s drive with the raw material for his servants\'92\
dinner\'97I felt sure he wouldn\'92t eat a spoonful. A maid began opening\
the upper windows of his house, appeared momentarily in each, and,\
leaning from the large central bay, spat meditatively into the\
garden. It was time I went back. While the rain continued it had\
seemed like the murmur of their voices, rising and swelling a little\
now and then with gusts of emotion. But in the new silence I felt that\
silence had fallen within the house too.\
\
I went in\'97after making every possible noise in the kitchen, short of\
pushing over the stove\'97but I don\'92t believe they heard a sound. They\
were sitting at either end of the couch, looking at each other as if\
some question had been asked, or was in the air, and every vestige of\
embarrassment was gone. Daisy\'92s face was smeared with tears, and when\
I came in she jumped up and began wiping at it with her handkerchief\
before a mirror. But there was a change in Gatsby that was simply\
confounding. He literally glowed; without a word or a gesture of\
exultation a new well-being radiated from him and filled the little\
room.\
\
\'93Oh, hello, old sport,\'94 he said, as if he hadn\'92t seen me for years. I\
thought for a moment he was going to shake hands.\
\
\'93It\'92s stopped raining.\'94\
\
\'93Has it?\'94 When he realized what I was talking about, that there were\
twinkle-bells of sunshine in the room, he smiled like a weather man,\
like an ecstatic patron of recurrent light, and repeated the news to\
Daisy. \'93What do you think of that? It\'92s stopped raining.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m glad, Jay.\'94 Her throat, full of aching, grieving beauty, told\
only of her unexpected joy.\
\
\'93I want you and Daisy to come over to my house,\'94 he said, \'93I\'92d like to\
show her around.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re sure you want me to come?\'94\
\
\'93Absolutely, old sport.\'94\
\
Daisy went upstairs to wash her face\'97too late I thought with\
humiliation of my towels\'97while Gatsby and I waited on the lawn.\
\
\'93My house looks well, doesn\'92t it?\'94 he demanded. \'93See how the whole\
front of it catches the light.\'94\
\
I agreed that it was splendid.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94 His eyes went over it, every arched door and square tower. \'93It\
took me just three years to earn the money that bought it.\'94\
\
\'93I thought you inherited your money.\'94\
\
\'93I did, old sport,\'94 he said automatically, \'93but I lost most of it in\
the big panic\'97the panic of the war.\'94\
\
I think he hardly knew what he was saying, for when I asked him what\
business he was in he answered: \'93That\'92s my affair,\'94 before he realized\
that it wasn\'92t an appropriate reply.\
\
\'93Oh, I\'92ve been in several things,\'94 he corrected himself. \'93I was in the\
drug business and then I was in the oil business. But I\'92m not in\
either one now.\'94 He looked at me with more attention. \'93Do you mean\
you\'92ve been thinking over what I proposed the other night?\'94\
\
Before I could answer, Daisy came out of the house and two rows of\
brass buttons on her dress gleamed in the sunlight.\
\
\'93That huge place there?\'94 she cried pointing.\
\
\'93Do you like it?\'94\
\
\'93I love it, but I don\'92t see how you live there all alone.\'94\
\
\'93I keep it always full of interesting people, night and day. People\
who do interesting things. Celebrated people.\'94\
\
Instead of taking the shortcut along the Sound we went down to the\
road and entered by the big postern. With enchanting murmurs Daisy\
admired this aspect or that of the feudal silhouette against the sky,\
admired the gardens, the sparkling odour of jonquils and the frothy\
odour of hawthorn and plum blossoms and the pale gold odour of\
kiss-me-at-the-gate. It was strange to reach the marble steps and find\
no stir of bright dresses in and out the door, and hear no sound but\
bird voices in the trees.\
\
And inside, as we wandered through Marie Antoinette music-rooms and\
Restoration Salons, I felt that there were guests concealed behind\
every couch and table, under orders to be breathlessly silent until we\
had passed through. As Gatsby closed the door of \'93the Merton College\
Library\'94 I could have sworn I heard the owl-eyed man break into\
ghostly laughter.\
\
We went upstairs, through period bedrooms swathed in rose and lavender\
silk and vivid with new flowers, through dressing-rooms and poolrooms,\
and bathrooms with sunken baths\'97intruding into one chamber where a\
dishevelled man in pyjamas was doing liver exercises on the floor. It\
was Mr. Klipspringer, the \'93boarder.\'94 I had seen him wandering hungrily\
about the beach that morning. Finally we came to Gatsby\'92s own\
apartment, a bedroom and a bath, and an Adam\'92s study, where we sat\
down and drank a glass of some Chartreuse he took from a cupboard in\
the wall.\
\
He hadn\'92t once ceased looking at Daisy, and I think he revalued\
everything in his house according to the measure of response it drew\
from her well-loved eyes. Sometimes too, he stared around at his\
possessions in a dazed way, as though in her actual and astounding\
presence none of it was any longer real. Once he nearly toppled down a\
flight of stairs.\
\
His bedroom was the simplest room of all\'97except where the dresser was\
garnished with a toilet set of pure dull gold. Daisy took the brush\
with delight, and smoothed her hair, whereupon Gatsby sat down and\
shaded his eyes and began to laugh.\
\
\'93It\'92s the funniest thing, old sport,\'94 he said hilariously. \'93I\
can\'92t\'97When I try to\'97\'94\
\
He had passed visibly through two states and was entering upon a\
third. After his embarrassment and his unreasoning joy he was consumed\
with wonder at her presence. He had been full of the idea so long,\
dreamed it right through to the end, waited with his teeth set, so to\
speak, at an inconceivable pitch of intensity. Now, in the reaction,\
he was running down like an over-wound clock.\
\
Recovering himself in a minute he opened for us two hulking patent\
cabinets which held his massed suits and dressing-gowns and ties, and\
his shirts, piled like bricks in stacks a dozen high.\
\
\'93I\'92ve got a man in England who buys me clothes. He sends over a\
selection of things at the beginning of each season, spring and fall.\'94\
\
He took out a pile of shirts and began throwing them, one by one,\
before us, shirts of sheer linen and thick silk and fine flannel,\
which lost their folds as they fell and covered the table in\
many-coloured disarray. While we admired he brought more and the soft\
rich heap mounted higher\'97shirts with stripes and scrolls and plaids in\
coral and apple-green and lavender and faint orange, with monograms of\
indian blue. Suddenly, with a strained sound, Daisy bent her head into\
the shirts and began to cry stormily.\
\
\'93They\'92re such beautiful shirts,\'94 she sobbed, her voice muffled in the\
thick folds. \'93It makes me sad because I\'92ve never seen such\'97such\
beautiful shirts before.\'94\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
After the house, we were to see the grounds and the swimming pool, and\
the hydroplane, and the midsummer flowers\'97but outside Gatsby\'92s window\
it began to rain again, so we stood in a row looking at the corrugated\
surface of the Sound.\
\
\'93If it wasn\'92t for the mist we could see your home across the bay,\'94\
said Gatsby. \'93You always have a green light that burns all night at\
the end of your dock.\'94\
\
Daisy put her arm through his abruptly, but he seemed absorbed in what\
he had just said. Possibly it had occurred to him that the colossal\
significance of that light had now vanished forever. Compared to the\
great distance that had separated him from Daisy it had seemed very\
near to her, almost touching her. It had seemed as close as a star to\
the moon. Now it was again a green light on a dock. His count of\
enchanted objects had diminished by one.\
\
I began to walk about the room, examining various indefinite objects\
in the half darkness. A large photograph of an elderly man in yachting\
costume attracted me, hung on the wall over his desk.\
\
\'93Who\'92s this?\'94\
\
\'93That? That\'92s Mr. Dan Cody, old sport.\'94\
\
The name sounded faintly familiar.\
\
\'93He\'92s dead now. He used to be my best friend years ago.\'94\
\
There was a small picture of Gatsby, also in yachting costume, on the\
bureau\'97Gatsby with his head thrown back defiantly\'97taken apparently\
when he was about eighteen.\
\
\'93I adore it,\'94 exclaimed Daisy. \'93The pompadour! You never told me you\
had a pompadour\'97or a yacht.\'94\
\
\'93Look at this,\'94 said Gatsby quickly. \'93Here\'92s a lot of clippings\'97about\
you.\'94\
\
They stood side by side examining it. I was going to ask to see the\
rubies when the phone rang, and Gatsby took up the receiver.\
\
\'93Yes \'85 Well, I can\'92t talk now \'85 I can\'92t talk now, old sport \'85 I said a\
small town \'85 He must know what a small town is \'85 Well, he\'92s no use to\
us if Detroit is his idea of a small town \'85\'94\
\
He rang off.\
\
\'93Come here quick!\'94 cried Daisy at the window.\
\
The rain was still falling, but the darkness had parted in the west,\
and there was a pink and golden billow of foamy clouds above the sea.\
\
\'93Look at that,\'94 she whispered, and then after a moment: \'93I\'92d like to\
just get one of those pink clouds and put you in it and push you\
around.\'94\
\
I tried to go then, but they wouldn\'92t hear of it; perhaps my presence\
made them feel more satisfactorily alone.\
\
\'93I know what we\'92ll do,\'94 said Gatsby, \'93we\'92ll have Klipspringer play the\
piano.\'94\
\
He went out of the room calling \'93Ewing!\'94 and returned in a few minutes\
accompanied by an embarrassed, slightly worn young man, with\
shell-rimmed glasses and scanty blond hair. He was now decently\
clothed in a \'93sport shirt,\'94 open at the neck, sneakers, and duck\
trousers of a nebulous hue.\
\
\'93Did we interrupt your exercise?\'94 inquired Daisy politely.\
\
\'93I was asleep,\'94 cried Mr. Klipspringer, in a spasm of embarrassment.\
\'93That is, I\'92d been asleep. Then I got up \'85\'94\
\
\'93Klipspringer plays the piano,\'94 said Gatsby, cutting him off. \'93Don\'92t\
you, Ewing, old sport?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t play well. I don\'92t\'97hardly play at all. I\'92m all out of prac\'97\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll go downstairs,\'94 interrupted Gatsby. He flipped a switch. The\
grey windows disappeared as the house glowed full of light.\
\
In the music-room Gatsby turned on a solitary lamp beside the piano.\
He lit Daisy\'92s cigarette from a trembling match, and sat down with her\
on a couch far across the room, where there was no light save what the\
gleaming floor bounced in from the hall.\
\
When Klipspringer had played \'93The Love Nest\'94 he turned around on the\
bench and searched unhappily for Gatsby in the gloom.\
\
\'93I\'92m all out of practice, you see. I told you I couldn\'92t play. I\'92m all\
out of prac\'97\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk so much, old sport,\'94 commanded Gatsby. \'93Play!\'94\
\
 \'93In the morning, In the evening, Ain\'92t we got fun\'97\'94\
\
Outside the wind was loud and there was a faint flow of thunder along\
the Sound. All the lights were going on in West Egg now; the electric\
trains, men-carrying, were plunging home through the rain from New\
York. It was the hour of a profound human change, and excitement was\
generating on the air.\
\
 \'93One thing\'92s sure and nothing\'92s surer The rich get richer and the\
 poor get\'97children. In the meantime, In between time\'97\'94\
\
As I went over to say goodbye I saw that the expression of\
bewilderment had come back into Gatsby\'92s face, as though a faint doubt\
had occurred to him as to the quality of his present happiness. Almost\
five years! There must have been moments even that afternoon when\
Daisy tumbled short of his dreams\'97not through her own fault, but\
because of the colossal vitality of his illusion. It had gone beyond\
her, beyond everything. He had thrown himself into it with a creative\
passion, adding to it all the time, decking it out with every bright\
feather that drifted his way. No amount of fire or freshness can\
challenge what a man can store up in his ghostly heart.\
\
As I watched him he adjusted himself a little, visibly. His hand took\
hold of hers, and as she said something low in his ear he turned\
toward her with a rush of emotion. I think that voice held him most,\
with its fluctuating, feverish warmth, because it couldn\'92t be\
over-dreamed\'97that voice was a deathless song.\
\
They had forgotten me, but Daisy glanced up and held out her hand;\
Gatsby didn\'92t know me now at all. I looked once more at them and they\
looked back at me, remotely, possessed by intense life. Then I went\
out of the room and down the marble steps into the rain, leaving them\
there together.\
\
\
                                  VI\
\
About this time an ambitious young reporter from New York arrived one\
morning at Gatsby\'92s door and asked him if he had anything to say.\
\
\'93Anything to say about what?\'94 inquired Gatsby politely.\
\
\'93Why\'97any statement to give out.\'94\
\
It transpired after a confused five minutes that the man had heard\
Gatsby\'92s name around his office in a connection which he either\
wouldn\'92t reveal or didn\'92t fully understand. This was his day off and\
with laudable initiative he had hurried out \'93to see.\'94\
\
It was a random shot, and yet the reporter\'92s instinct was right.\
Gatsby\'92s notoriety, spread about by the hundreds who had accepted his\
hospitality and so become authorities upon his past, had increased all\
summer until he fell just short of being news. Contemporary legends\
such as the \'93underground pipeline to Canada\'94 attached themselves to\
him, and there was one persistent story that he didn\'92t live in a house\
at all, but in a boat that looked like a house and was moved secretly\
up and down the Long Island shore. Just why these inventions were a\
source of satisfaction to James Gatz of North Dakota, isn\'92t easy to\
say.\
\
James Gatz\'97that was really, or at least legally, his name. He had\
changed it at the age of seventeen and at the specific moment that\
witnessed the beginning of his career\'97when he saw Dan Cody\'92s yacht\
drop anchor over the most insidious flat on Lake Superior. It was\
James Gatz who had been loafing along the beach that afternoon in a\
torn green jersey and a pair of canvas pants, but it was already Jay\
Gatsby who borrowed a rowboat, pulled out to the Tuolomee, and\
informed Cody that a wind might catch him and break him up in half an\
hour.\
\
I suppose he\'92d had the name ready for a long time, even then. His\
parents were shiftless and unsuccessful farm people\'97his imagination\
had never really accepted them as his parents at all. The truth was\
that Jay Gatsby of West Egg, Long Island, sprang from his Platonic\
conception of himself. He was a son of God\'97a phrase which, if it means\
anything, means just that\'97and he must be about His Father\'92s business,\
the service of a vast, vulgar, and meretricious beauty. So he invented\
just the sort of Jay Gatsby that a seventeen-year-old boy would be\
likely to invent, and to this conception he was faithful to the end.\
\
For over a year he had been beating his way along the south shore of\
Lake Superior as a clam-digger and a salmon-fisher or in any other\
capacity that brought him food and bed. His brown, hardening body\
lived naturally through the half-fierce, half-lazy work of the bracing\
days. He knew women early, and since they spoiled him he became\
contemptuous of them, of young virgins because they were ignorant, of\
the others because they were hysterical about things which in his\
overwhelming self-absorption he took for granted.\
\
But his heart was in a constant, turbulent riot. The most grotesque\
and fantastic conceits haunted him in his bed at night. A universe of\
ineffable gaudiness spun itself out in his brain while the clock\
ticked on the washstand and the moon soaked with wet light his tangled\
clothes upon the floor. Each night he added to the pattern of his\
fancies until drowsiness closed down upon some vivid scene with an\
oblivious embrace. For a while these reveries provided an outlet for\
his imagination; they were a satisfactory hint of the unreality of\
reality, a promise that the rock of the world was founded securely on\
a fairy\'92s wing.\
\
An instinct toward his future glory had led him, some months before,\
to the small Lutheran College of St. Olaf\'92s in southern Minnesota. He\
stayed there two weeks, dismayed at its ferocious indifference to the\
drums of his destiny, to destiny itself, and despising the janitor\'92s\
work with which he was to pay his way through. Then he drifted back to\
Lake Superior, and he was still searching for something to do on the\
day that Dan Cody\'92s yacht dropped anchor in the shallows alongshore.\
\
Cody was fifty years old then, a product of the Nevada silver fields,\
of the Yukon, of every rush for metal since seventy-five. The\
transactions in Montana copper that made him many times a millionaire\
found him physically robust but on the verge of soft-mindedness, and,\
suspecting this, an infinite number of women tried to separate him\
from his money. The none too savoury ramifications by which Ella Kaye,\
the newspaper woman, played Madame de Maintenon to his weakness and\
sent him to sea in a yacht, were common property of the turgid\
journalism in 1902. He had been coasting along all too hospitable\
shores for five years when he turned up as James Gatz\'92s destiny in\
Little Girl Bay.\
\
To young Gatz, resting on his oars and looking up at the railed deck,\
that yacht represented all the beauty and glamour in the world. I\
suppose he smiled at Cody\'97he had probably discovered that people liked\
him when he smiled. At any rate Cody asked him a few questions (one of\
them elicited the brand new name) and found that he was quick and\
extravagantly ambitious. A few days later he took him to Duluth and\
bought him a blue coat, six pairs of white duck trousers, and a\
yachting cap. And when the Tuolomee left for the West Indies and the\
Barbary Coast, Gatsby left too.\
\
He was employed in a vague personal capacity\'97while he remained with\
Cody he was in turn steward, mate, skipper, secretary, and even\
jailor, for Dan Cody sober knew what lavish doings Dan Cody drunk\
might soon be about, and he provided for such contingencies by\
reposing more and more trust in Gatsby. The arrangement lasted five\
years, during which the boat went three times around the Continent.\
It might have lasted indefinitely except for the fact that Ella Kaye\
came on board one night in Boston and a week later Dan Cody\
inhospitably died.\
\
I remember the portrait of him up in Gatsby\'92s bedroom, a grey, florid\
man with a hard, empty face\'97the pioneer debauchee, who during one\
phase of American life brought back to the Eastern seaboard the savage\
violence of the frontier brothel and saloon. It was indirectly due to\
Cody that Gatsby drank so little. Sometimes in the course of gay\
parties women used to rub champagne into his hair; for himself he\
formed the habit of letting liquor alone.\
\
And it was from Cody that he inherited money\'97a legacy of twenty-five\
thousand dollars. He didn\'92t get it. He never understood the legal\
device that was used against him, but what remained of the millions\
went intact to Ella Kaye. He was left with his singularly appropriate\
education; the vague contour of Jay Gatsby had filled out to the\
substantiality of a man.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
He told me all this very much later, but I\'92ve put it down here with\
the idea of exploding those first wild rumours about his antecedents,\
which weren\'92t even faintly true. Moreover he told it to me at a time\
of confusion, when I had reached the point of believing everything and\
nothing about him. So I take advantage of this short halt, while\
Gatsby, so to speak, caught his breath, to clear this set of\
misconceptions away.\
\
It was a halt, too, in my association with his affairs. For several\
weeks I didn\'92t see him or hear his voice on the phone\'97mostly I was in\
New York, trotting around with Jordan and trying to ingratiate myself\
with her senile aunt\'97but finally I went over to his house one Sunday\
afternoon. I hadn\'92t been there two minutes when somebody brought Tom\
Buchanan in for a drink. I was startled, naturally, but the really\
surprising thing was that it hadn\'92t happened before.\
\
They were a party of three on horseback\'97Tom and a man named Sloane and\
a pretty woman in a brown riding-habit, who had been there previously.\
\
\'93I\'92m delighted to see you,\'94 said Gatsby, standing on his porch. \'93I\'92m\
delighted that you dropped in.\'94\
\
As though they cared!\
\
\'93Sit right down. Have a cigarette or a cigar.\'94 He walked around the\
room quickly, ringing bells. \'93I\'92ll have something to drink for you in\
just a minute.\'94\
\
He was profoundly affected by the fact that Tom was there. But he\
would be uneasy anyhow until he had given them something, realizing in\
a vague way that that was all they came for. Mr. Sloane wanted\
nothing. A lemonade? No, thanks. A little champagne? Nothing at all,\
thanks \'85 I\'92m sorry\'97\
\
\'93Did you have a nice ride?\'94\
\
\'93Very good roads around here.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose the automobiles\'97\'94\
\
\'93Yeah.\'94\
\
Moved by an irresistible impulse, Gatsby turned to Tom, who had\
accepted the introduction as a stranger.\
\
\'93I believe we\'92ve met somewhere before, Mr. Buchanan.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 said Tom, gruffly polite, but obviously not remembering.\
\'93So we did. I remember very well.\'94\
\
\'93About two weeks ago.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s right. You were with Nick here.\'94\
\
\'93I know your wife,\'94 continued Gatsby, almost aggressively.\
\
\'93That so?\'94\
\
Tom turned to me.\
\
\'93You live near here, Nick?\'94\
\
\'93Next door.\'94\
\
\'93That so?\'94\
\
Mr. Sloane didn\'92t enter into the conversation, but lounged back\
haughtily in his chair; the woman said nothing either\'97until\
unexpectedly, after two highballs, she became cordial.\
\
\'93We\'92ll all come over to your next party, Mr. Gatsby,\'94 she suggested.\
\'93What do you say?\'94\
\
\'93Certainly; I\'92d be delighted to have you.\'94\
\
\'93Be ver\'92 nice,\'94 said Mr. Sloane, without gratitude. \'93Well\'97think ought\
to be starting home.\'94\
\
\'93Please don\'92t hurry,\'94 Gatsby urged them. He had control of himself\
now, and he wanted to see more of Tom. \'93Why don\'92t you\'97why don\'92t you\
stay for supper? I wouldn\'92t be surprised if some other people dropped\
in from New York.\'94\
\
\'93You come to supper with me,\'94 said the lady enthusiastically. \'93Both of\
you.\'94\
\
This included me. Mr. Sloane got to his feet.\
\
\'93Come along,\'94 he said\'97but to her only.\
\
\'93I mean it,\'94 she insisted. \'93I\'92d love to have you. Lots of room.\'94\
\
Gatsby looked at me questioningly. He wanted to go and he didn\'92t see\
that Mr. Sloane had determined he shouldn\'92t.\
\
\'93I\'92m afraid I won\'92t be able to,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Well, you come,\'94 she urged, concentrating on Gatsby.\
\
Mr. Sloane murmured something close to her ear.\
\
\'93We won\'92t be late if we start now,\'94 she insisted aloud.\
\
\'93I haven\'92t got a horse,\'94 said Gatsby. \'93I used to ride in the army, but\
I\'92ve never bought a horse. I\'92ll have to follow you in my car. Excuse\
me for just a minute.\'94\
\
The rest of us walked out on the porch, where Sloane and the lady\
began an impassioned conversation aside.\
\
\'93My God, I believe the man\'92s coming,\'94 said Tom. \'93Doesn\'92t he know she\
doesn\'92t want him?\'94\
\
\'93She says she does want him.\'94\
\
\'93She has a big dinner party and he won\'92t know a soul there.\'94 He\
frowned. \'93I wonder where in the devil he met Daisy. By God, I may be\
old-fashioned in my ideas, but women run around too much these days to\
suit me. They meet all kinds of crazy fish.\'94\
\
Suddenly Mr. Sloane and the lady walked down the steps and mounted\
their horses.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 said Mr. Sloane to Tom, \'93we\'92re late. We\'92ve got to go.\'94  And\
then to me: \'93Tell him we couldn\'92t wait, will you?\'94\
\
Tom and I shook hands, the rest of us exchanged a cool nod, and they\
trotted quickly down the drive, disappearing under the August foliage\
just as Gatsby, with hat and light overcoat in hand, came out the\
front door.\
\
Tom was evidently perturbed at Daisy\'92s running around alone, for on\
the following Saturday night he came with her to Gatsby\'92s\
party. Perhaps his presence gave the evening its peculiar quality of\
oppressiveness\'97it stands out in my memory from Gatsby\'92s other parties\
that summer. There were the same people, or at least the same sort of\
people, the same profusion of champagne, the same many-coloured,\
many-keyed commotion, but I felt an unpleasantness in the air, a\
pervading harshness that hadn\'92t been there before. Or perhaps I had\
merely grown used to it, grown to accept West Egg as a world complete\
in itself, with its own standards and its own great figures, second to\
nothing because it had no consciousness of being so, and now I was\
looking at it again, through Daisy\'92s eyes. It is invariably saddening\
to look through new eyes at things upon which you have expended your\
own powers of adjustment.\
\
They arrived at twilight, and, as we strolled out among the sparkling\
hundreds, Daisy\'92s voice was playing murmurous tricks in her throat.\
\
\'93These things excite me so,\'94 she whispered. \'93If you want to kiss me\
any time during the evening, Nick, just let me know and I\'92ll be glad\
to arrange it for you. Just mention my name. Or present a green card.\
I\'92m giving out green\'97\'94\
\
\'93Look around,\'94 suggested Gatsby.\
\
\'93I\'92m looking around. I\'92m having a marvellous\'97\'94\
\
\'93You must see the faces of many people you\'92ve heard about.\'94\
\
Tom\'92s arrogant eyes roamed the crowd.\
\
\'93We don\'92t go around very much,\'94 he said; \'93in fact, I was just thinking\
I don\'92t know a soul here.\'94\
\
\'93Perhaps you know that lady.\'94 Gatsby indicated a gorgeous, scarcely\
human orchid of a woman who sat in state under a white-plum tree. Tom\
and Daisy stared, with that peculiarly unreal feeling that accompanies\
the recognition of a hitherto ghostly celebrity of the movies.\
\
\'93She\'92s lovely,\'94 said Daisy.\
\
\'93The man bending over her is her director.\'94\
\
He took them ceremoniously from group to group:\
\
\'93Mrs. Buchanan \'85 and Mr. Buchanan\'97\'94 After an instant\'92s hesitation he\
added: \'93the polo player.\'94\
\
\'93Oh no,\'94 objected Tom quickly, \'93not me.\'94\
\
But evidently the sound of it pleased Gatsby for Tom remained \'93the\
polo player\'94 for the rest of the evening.\
\
\'93I\'92ve never met so many celebrities,\'94 Daisy exclaimed. \'93I liked that\
man\'97what was his name?\'97with the sort of blue nose.\'94\
\
Gatsby identified him, adding that he was a small producer.\
\
\'93Well, I liked him anyhow.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d a little rather not be the polo player,\'94 said Tom pleasantly,\
\'93I\'92d rather look at all these famous people in\'97in oblivion.\'94\
\
Daisy and Gatsby danced. I remember being surprised by his graceful,\
conservative foxtrot\'97I had never seen him dance before. Then they\
sauntered over to my house and sat on the steps for half an hour,\
while at her request I remained watchfully in the garden. \'93In case\
there\'92s a fire or a flood,\'94 she explained, \'93or any act of God.\'94\
\
Tom appeared from his oblivion as we were sitting down to supper\
together. \'93Do you mind if I eat with some people over here?\'94 he\
said. \'93A fellow\'92s getting off some funny stuff.\'94\
\
\'93Go ahead,\'94 answered Daisy genially, \'93and if you want to take down any\
addresses here\'92s my little gold pencil.\'94 \'85 She looked around after a\
moment and told me the girl was \'93common but pretty,\'94 and I knew that\
except for the half-hour she\'92d been alone with Gatsby she wasn\'92t\
having a good time.\
\
We were at a particularly tipsy table. That was my fault\'97Gatsby had\
been called to the phone, and I\'92d enjoyed these same people only two\
weeks before. But what had amused me then turned septic on the air\
now.\
\
\'93How do you feel, Miss Baedeker?\'94\
\
The girl addressed was trying, unsuccessfully, to slump against my\
shoulder. At this inquiry she sat up and opened her eyes.\
\
\'93Wha\'92?\'94\
\
A massive and lethargic woman, who had been urging Daisy to play golf\
with her at the local club tomorrow, spoke in Miss Baedeker\'92s defence:\
\
\'93Oh, she\'92s all right now. When she\'92s had five or six cocktails she\
always starts screaming like that. I tell her she ought to leave it\
alone.\'94\
\
\'93I do leave it alone,\'94 affirmed the accused hollowly.\
\
\'93We heard you yelling, so I said to Doc Civet here: \'91There\'92s somebody\
that needs your help, Doc.\'92\uc0\u8202 \'94\
\
\'93She\'92s much obliged, I\'92m sure,\'94 said another friend, without\
gratitude, \'93but you got her dress all wet when you stuck her head in\
the pool.\'94\
\
\'93Anything I hate is to get my head stuck in a pool,\'94 mumbled Miss\
Baedeker. \'93They almost drowned me once over in New Jersey.\'94\
\
\'93Then you ought to leave it alone,\'94 countered Doctor Civet.\
\
\'93Speak for yourself!\'94 cried Miss Baedeker violently. \'93Your hand\
shakes. I wouldn\'92t let you operate on me!\'94\
\
It was like that. Almost the last thing I remember was standing with\
Daisy and watching the moving-picture director and his Star. They were\
still under the white-plum tree and their faces were touching except\
for a pale, thin ray of moonlight between. It occurred to me that he\
had been very slowly bending toward her all evening to attain this\
proximity, and even while I watched I saw him stoop one ultimate\
degree and kiss at her cheek.\
\
\'93I like her,\'94 said Daisy, \'93I think she\'92s lovely.\'94\
\
But the rest offended her\'97and inarguably because it wasn\'92t a gesture\
but an emotion. She was appalled by West Egg, this unprecedented\
\'93place\'94 that Broadway had begotten upon a Long Island fishing\
village\'97appalled by its raw vigour that chafed under the old\
euphemisms and by the too obtrusive fate that herded its inhabitants\
along a shortcut from nothing to nothing. She saw something awful in\
the very simplicity she failed to understand.\
\
I sat on the front steps with them while they waited for their car.\
It was dark here in front; only the bright door sent ten square feet\
of light volleying out into the soft black morning. Sometimes a shadow\
moved against a dressing-room blind above, gave way to another shadow,\
an indefinite procession of shadows, who rouged and powdered in an\
invisible glass.\
\
\'93Who is this Gatsby anyhow?\'94 demanded Tom suddenly. \'93Some big\
bootlegger?\'94\
\
\'93Where\'92d you hear that?\'94 I inquired.\
\
\'93I didn\'92t hear it. I imagined it. A lot of these newly rich people are\
just big bootleggers, you know.\'94\
\
\'93Not Gatsby,\'94 I said shortly.\
\
He was silent for a moment. The pebbles of the drive crunched under\
his feet.\
\
\'93Well, he certainly must have strained himself to get this menagerie\
together.\'94\
\
A breeze stirred the grey haze of Daisy\'92s fur collar.\
\
\'93At least they are more interesting than the people we know,\'94 she said\
with an effort.\
\
\'93You didn\'92t look so interested.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I was.\'94\
\
Tom laughed and turned to me.\
\
\'93Did you notice Daisy\'92s face when that girl asked her to put her under\
a cold shower?\'94\
\
Daisy began to sing with the music in a husky, rhythmic whisper,\
bringing out a meaning in each word that it had never had before and\
would never have again. When the melody rose her voice broke up\
sweetly, following it, in a way contralto voices have, and each change\
tipped out a little of her warm human magic upon the air.\
\
\'93Lots of people come who haven\'92t been invited,\'94 she said\
suddenly. \'93That girl hadn\'92t been invited. They simply force their way\
in and he\'92s too polite to object.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to know who he is and what he does,\'94 insisted Tom. \'93And I\
think I\'92ll make a point of finding out.\'94\
\
\'93I can tell you right now,\'94 she answered. \'93He owned some drugstores, a\
lot of drugstores. He built them up himself.\'94\
\
The dilatory limousine came rolling up the drive.\
\
\'93Good night, Nick,\'94 said Daisy.\
\
Her glance left me and sought the lighted top of the steps, where\
\'93Three O\'92Clock in the Morning,\'94 a neat, sad little waltz of that year,\
was drifting out the open door. After all, in the very casualness of\
Gatsby\'92s party there were romantic possibilities totally absent from\
her world. What was it up there in the song that seemed to be calling\
her back inside? What would happen now in the dim, incalculable hours?\
Perhaps some unbelievable guest would arrive, a person infinitely rare\
and to be marvelled at, some authentically radiant young girl who with\
one fresh glance at Gatsby, one moment of magical encounter, would\
blot out those five years of unwavering devotion.\
\
I stayed late that night. Gatsby asked me to wait until he was free,\
and I lingered in the garden until the inevitable swimming party had\
run up, chilled and exalted, from the black beach, until the lights\
were extinguished in the guestrooms overhead. When he came down the\
steps at last the tanned skin was drawn unusually tight on his face,\
and his eyes were bright and tired.\
\
\'93She didn\'92t like it,\'94 he said immediately.\
\
\'93Of course she did.\'94\
\
\'93She didn\'92t like it,\'94 he insisted. \'93She didn\'92t have a good time.\'94\
\
He was silent, and I guessed at his unutterable depression.\
\
\'93I feel far away from her,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s hard to make her\
understand.\'94\
\
\'93You mean about the dance?\'94\
\
\'93The dance?\'94 He dismissed all the dances he had given with a snap of\
his fingers. \'93Old sport, the dance is unimportant.\'94\
\
He wanted nothing less of Daisy than that she should go to Tom and\
say: \'93I never loved you.\'94 After she had obliterated four years with\
that sentence they could decide upon the more practical measures to be\
taken. One of them was that, after she was free, they were to go back\
to Louisville and be married from her house\'97just as if it were five\
years ago.\
\
\'93And she doesn\'92t understand,\'94 he said. \'93She used to be able to\
understand. We\'92d sit for hours\'97\'94\
\
He broke off and began to walk up and down a desolate path of fruit\
rinds and discarded favours and crushed flowers.\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t ask too much of her,\'94 I ventured. \'93You can\'92t repeat the\
past.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t repeat the past?\'94 he cried incredulously. \'93Why of course you\
can!\'94\
\
He looked around him wildly, as if the past were lurking here in the\
shadow of his house, just out of reach of his hand.\
\
\'93I\'92m going to fix everything just the way it was before,\'94 he said,\
nodding determinedly. \'93She\'92ll see.\'94\
\
He talked a lot about the past, and I gathered that he wanted to\
recover something, some idea of himself perhaps, that had gone into\
loving Daisy. His life had been confused and disordered since then,\
but if he could once return to a certain starting place and go over it\
all slowly, he could find out what that thing was \'85\
\
\'85 One autumn night, five years before, they had been walking down the\
street when the leaves were falling, and they came to a place where\
there were no trees and the sidewalk was white with moonlight. They\
stopped here and turned toward each other. Now it was a cool night\
with that mysterious excitement in it which comes at the two changes\
of the year. The quiet lights in the houses were humming out into the\
darkness and there was a stir and bustle among the stars. Out of the\
corner of his eye Gatsby saw that the blocks of the sidewalks really\
formed a ladder and mounted to a secret place above the trees\'97he could\
climb to it, if he climbed alone, and once there he could suck on the\
pap of life, gulp down the incomparable milk of wonder.\
\
His heart beat faster as Daisy\'92s white face came up to his own. He\
knew that when he kissed this girl, and forever wed his unutterable\
visions to her perishable breath, his mind would never romp again like\
the mind of God. So he waited, listening for a moment longer to the\
tuning-fork that had been struck upon a star. Then he kissed her. At\
his lips\'92 touch she blossomed for him like a flower and the\
incarnation was complete.\
\
Through all he said, even through his appalling sentimentality, I was\
reminded of something\'97an elusive rhythm, a fragment of lost words,\
that I had heard somewhere a long time ago. For a moment a phrase\
tried to take shape in my mouth and my lips parted like a dumb man\'92s,\
as though there was more struggling upon them than a wisp of startled\
air. But they made no sound, and what I had almost remembered was\
uncommunicable forever.\
\
\
                                 VII\
\
It was when curiosity about Gatsby was at its highest that the lights\
in his house failed to go on one Saturday night\'97and, as obscurely as\
it had begun, his career as Trimalchio was over. Only gradually did I\
become aware that the automobiles which turned expectantly into his\
drive stayed for just a minute and then drove sulkily away. Wondering\
if he were sick I went over to find out\'97an unfamiliar butler with a\
villainous face squinted at me suspiciously from the door.\
\
\'93Is Mr. Gatsby sick?\'94\
\
\'93Nope.\'94 After a pause he added \'93sir\'94 in a dilatory, grudging way.\
\
\'93I hadn\'92t seen him around, and I was rather worried. Tell him Mr.\
Carraway came over.\'94\
\
\'93Who?\'94 he demanded rudely.\
\
\'93Carraway.\'94\
\
\'93Carraway. All right, I\'92ll tell him.\'94\
\
Abruptly he slammed the door.\
\
My Finn informed me that Gatsby had dismissed every servant in his\
house a week ago and replaced them with half a dozen others, who never\
went into West Egg village to be bribed by the tradesmen, but ordered\
moderate supplies over the telephone. The grocery boy reported that\
the kitchen looked like a pigsty, and the general opinion in the\
village was that the new people weren\'92t servants at all.\
\
Next day Gatsby called me on the phone.\
\
\'93Going away?\'94 I inquired.\
\
\'93No, old sport.\'94\
\
\'93I hear you fired all your servants.\'94\
\
\'93I wanted somebody who wouldn\'92t gossip. Daisy comes over quite\
often\'97in the afternoons.\'94\
\
So the whole caravansary had fallen in like a card house at the\
disapproval in her eyes.\
\
\'93They\'92re some people Wolfshiem wanted to do something for. They\'92re all\
brothers and sisters. They used to run a small hotel.\'94\
\
\'93I see.\'94\
\
He was calling up at Daisy\'92s request\'97would I come to lunch at her\
house tomorrow? Miss Baker would be there. Half an hour later Daisy\
herself telephoned and seemed relieved to find that I was\
coming. Something was up. And yet I couldn\'92t believe that they would\
choose this occasion for a scene\'97especially for the rather harrowing\
scene that Gatsby had outlined in the garden.\
\
The next day was broiling, almost the last, certainly the warmest, of\
the summer. As my train emerged from the tunnel into sunlight, only\
the hot whistles of the National Biscuit Company broke the simmering\
hush at noon. The straw seats of the car hovered on the edge of\
combustion; the woman next to me perspired delicately for a while into\
her white shirtwaist, and then, as her newspaper dampened under her\
fingers, lapsed despairingly into deep heat with a desolate cry. Her\
pocketbook slapped to the floor.\
\
\'93Oh, my!\'94 she gasped.\
\
I picked it up with a weary bend and handed it back to her, holding it\
at arm\'92s length and by the extreme tip of the corners to indicate that\
I had no designs upon it\'97but everyone near by, including the woman,\
suspected me just the same.\
\
\'93Hot!\'94 said the conductor to familiar faces. \'93Some weather! \'85 Hot! \'85\
Hot! \'85 Hot! \'85 Is it hot enough for you? Is it hot? Is it \'85\uc0\u8202 ?\'94\
\
My commutation ticket came back to me with a dark stain from his hand.\
That anyone should care in this heat whose flushed lips he kissed,\
whose head made damp the pyjama pocket over his heart!\
\
\'85 Through the hall of the Buchanans\'92 house blew a faint wind, carrying\
the sound of the telephone bell out to Gatsby and me as we waited at\
the door.\
\
\'93The master\'92s body?\'94 roared the butler into the mouthpiece. \'93I\'92m\
sorry, madame, but we can\'92t furnish it\'97it\'92s far too hot to touch this\
noon!\'94\
\
What he really said was: \'93Yes \'85 Yes \'85 I\'92ll see.\'94\
\
He set down the receiver and came toward us, glistening slightly, to\
take our stiff straw hats.\
\
\'93Madame expects you in the salon!\'94 he cried, needlessly indicating the\
direction. In this heat every extra gesture was an affront to the\
common store of life.\
\
The room, shadowed well with awnings, was dark and cool. Daisy and\
Jordan lay upon an enormous couch, like silver idols weighing down\
their own white dresses against the singing breeze of the fans.\
\
\'93We can\'92t move,\'94 they said together.\
\
Jordan\'92s fingers, powdered white over their tan, rested for a moment\
in mine.\
\
\'93And Mr. Thomas Buchanan, the athlete?\'94 I inquired.\
\
Simultaneously I heard his voice, gruff, muffled, husky, at the hall\
telephone.\
\
Gatsby stood in the centre of the crimson carpet and gazed around with\
fascinated eyes. Daisy watched him and laughed, her sweet, exciting\
laugh; a tiny gust of powder rose from her bosom into the air.\
\
\'93The rumour is,\'94 whispered Jordan, \'93that that\'92s Tom\'92s girl on the\
telephone.\'94\
\
We were silent. The voice in the hall rose high with annoyance: \'93Very\
well, then, I won\'92t sell you the car at all \'85 I\'92m under no obligations\
to you at all \'85 and as for your bothering me about it at lunch time, I\
won\'92t stand that at all!\'94\
\
\'93Holding down the receiver,\'94 said Daisy cynically.\
\
\'93No, he\'92s not,\'94 I assured her. \'93It\'92s a bona-fide deal. I happen to\
know about it.\'94\
\
Tom flung open the door, blocked out its space for a moment with his\
thick body, and hurried into the room.\
\
\'93Mr. Gatsby!\'94 He put out his broad, flat hand with well-concealed\
dislike. \'93I\'92m glad to see you, sir \'85 Nick \'85\'94\
\
\'93Make us a cold drink,\'94 cried Daisy.\
\
As he left the room again she got up and went over to Gatsby and\
pulled his face down, kissing him on the mouth.\
\
\'93You know I love you,\'94 she murmured.\
\
\'93You forget there\'92s a lady present,\'94 said Jordan.\
\
Daisy looked around doubtfully.\
\
\'93You kiss Nick too.\'94\
\
\'93What a low, vulgar girl!\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t care!\'94 cried Daisy, and began to clog on the brick fireplace.\
Then she remembered the heat and sat down guiltily on the couch just\
as a freshly laundered nurse leading a little girl came into the room.\
\
\'93Bles-sed pre-cious,\'94 she crooned, holding out her arms. \'93Come to your\
own mother that loves you.\'94\
\
The child, relinquished by the nurse, rushed across the room and\
rooted shyly into her mother\'92s dress.\
\
\'93The bles-sed pre-cious! Did mother get powder on your old yellowy\
hair? Stand up now, and say\'97How-de-do.\'94\
\
Gatsby and I in turn leaned down and took the small reluctant hand.\
Afterward he kept looking at the child with surprise. I don\'92t think he\
had ever really believed in its existence before.\
\
\'93I got dressed before luncheon,\'94 said the child, turning eagerly to\
Daisy.\
\
\'93That\'92s because your mother wanted to show you off.\'94 Her face bent\
into the single wrinkle of the small white neck. \'93You dream, you. You\
absolute little dream.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 admitted the child calmly. \'93Aunt Jordan\'92s got on a white dress\
too.\'94\
\
\'93How do you like mother\'92s friends?\'94 Daisy turned her around so that\
she faced Gatsby. \'93Do you think they\'92re pretty?\'94\
\
\'93Where\'92s Daddy?\'94\
\
\'93She doesn\'92t look like her father,\'94 explained Daisy. \'93She looks like\
me. She\'92s got my hair and shape of the face.\'94\
\
Daisy sat back upon the couch. The nurse took a step forward and held\
out her hand.\
\
\'93Come, Pammy.\'94\
\
\'93Goodbye, sweetheart!\'94\
\
With a reluctant backward glance the well-disciplined child held to\
her nurse\'92s hand and was pulled out the door, just as Tom came back,\
preceding four gin rickeys that clicked full of ice.\
\
Gatsby took up his drink.\
\
\'93They certainly look cool,\'94 he said, with visible tension.\
\
We drank in long, greedy swallows.\
\
\'93I read somewhere that the sun\'92s getting hotter every year,\'94 said Tom\
genially. \'93It seems that pretty soon the earth\'92s going to fall into\
the sun\'97or wait a minute\'97it\'92s just the opposite\'97the sun\'92s getting\
colder every year.\
\
\'93Come outside,\'94 he suggested to Gatsby, \'93I\'92d like you to have a look\
at the place.\'94\
\
I went with them out to the veranda. On the green Sound, stagnant in\
the heat, one small sail crawled slowly toward the fresher sea.\
Gatsby\'92s eyes followed it momentarily; he raised his hand and pointed\
across the bay.\
\
\'93I\'92m right across from you.\'94\
\
\'93So you are.\'94\
\
Our eyes lifted over the rose-beds and the hot lawn and the weedy\
refuse of the dog-days alongshore. Slowly the white wings of the boat\
moved against the blue cool limit of the sky. Ahead lay the scalloped\
ocean and the abounding blessed isles.\
\
\'93There\'92s sport for you,\'94 said Tom, nodding. \'93I\'92d like to be out there\
with him for about an hour.\'94\
\
We had luncheon in the dining-room, darkened too against the heat, and\
drank down nervous gaiety with the cold ale.\
\
\'93What\'92ll we do with ourselves this afternoon?\'94 cried Daisy, \'93and the\
day after that, and the next thirty years?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be morbid,\'94 Jordan said. \'93Life starts all over again when it\
gets crisp in the fall.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s so hot,\'94 insisted Daisy, on the verge of tears, \'93and\
everything\'92s so confused. Let\'92s all go to town!\'94\
\
Her voice struggled on through the heat, beating against it, moulding\
its senselessness into forms.\
\
\'93I\'92ve heard of making a garage out of a stable,\'94 Tom was saying to\
Gatsby, \'93but I\'92m the first man who ever made a stable out of a\
garage.\'94\
\
\'93Who wants to go to town?\'94 demanded Daisy insistently. Gatsby\'92s eyes\
floated toward her. \'93Ah,\'94 she cried, \'93you look so cool.\'94\
\
Their eyes met, and they stared together at each other, alone in\
space. With an effort she glanced down at the table.\
\
\'93You always look so cool,\'94 she repeated.\
\
She had told him that she loved him, and Tom Buchanan saw. He was\
astounded. His mouth opened a little, and he looked at Gatsby, and\
then back at Daisy as if he had just recognized her as someone he knew\
a long time ago.\
\
\'93You resemble the advertisement of the man,\'94 she went on innocently.\
\'93You know the advertisement of the man\'97\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 broke in Tom quickly, \'93I\'92m perfectly willing to go to\
town. Come on\'97we\'92re all going to town.\'94\
\
He got up, his eyes still flashing between Gatsby and his wife. No one\
moved.\
\
\'93Come on!\'94 His temper cracked a little. \'93What\'92s the matter, anyhow?\
If we\'92re going to town, let\'92s start.\'94\
\
His hand, trembling with his effort at self-control, bore to his lips\
the last of his glass of ale. Daisy\'92s voice got us to our feet and out\
on to the blazing gravel drive.\
\
\'93Are we just going to go?\'94 she objected. \'93Like this? Aren\'92t we going\
to let anyone smoke a cigarette first?\'94\
\
\'93Everybody smoked all through lunch.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, let\'92s have fun,\'94 she begged him. \'93It\'92s too hot to fuss.\'94\
\
He didn\'92t answer.\
\
\'93Have it your own way,\'94 she said. \'93Come on, Jordan.\'94\
\
They went upstairs to get ready while we three men stood there\
shuffling the hot pebbles with our feet. A silver curve of the moon\
hovered already in the western sky. Gatsby started to speak, changed\
his mind, but not before Tom wheeled and faced him expectantly.\
\
\'93Have you got your stables here?\'94 asked Gatsby with an effort.\
\
\'93About a quarter of a mile down the road.\'94\
\
\'93Oh.\'94\
\
A pause.\
\
\'93I don\'92t see the idea of going to town,\'94 broke out Tom savagely.\
\'93Women get these notions in their heads\'97\'94\
\
\'93Shall we take anything to drink?\'94 called Daisy from an upper window.\
\
\'93I\'92ll get some whisky,\'94 answered Tom. He went inside.\
\
Gatsby turned to me rigidly:\
\
\'93I can\'92t say anything in his house, old sport.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s got an indiscreet voice,\'94 I remarked. \'93It\'92s full of\'97\'94 I\
hesitated.\
\
\'93Her voice is full of money,\'94 he said suddenly.\
\
That was it. I\'92d never understood before. It was full of money\'97that\
was the inexhaustible charm that rose and fell in it, the jingle of\
it, the cymbals\'92 song of it \'85 High in a white palace the king\'92s\
daughter, the golden girl \'85\
\
Tom came out of the house wrapping a quart bottle in a towel, followed\
by Daisy and Jordan wearing small tight hats of metallic cloth and\
carrying light capes over their arms.\
\
\'93Shall we all go in my car?\'94 suggested Gatsby. He felt the hot, green\
leather of the seat. \'93I ought to have left it in the shade.\'94\
\
\'93Is it standard shift?\'94 demanded Tom.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you take my coup\'e9 and let me drive your car to town.\'94\
\
The suggestion was distasteful to Gatsby.\
\
\'93I don\'92t think there\'92s much gas,\'94 he objected.\
\
\'93Plenty of gas,\'94 said Tom boisterously. He looked at the gauge. \'93And\
if it runs out I can stop at a drugstore. You can buy anything at a\
drugstore nowadays.\'94\
\
A pause followed this apparently pointless remark. Daisy looked at Tom\
frowning, and an indefinable expression, at once definitely unfamiliar\
and vaguely recognizable, as if I had only heard it described in\
words, passed over Gatsby\'92s face.\
\
\'93Come on, Daisy,\'94 said Tom, pressing her with his hand toward Gatsby\'92s\
car. \'93I\'92ll take you in this circus wagon.\'94\
\
He opened the door, but she moved out from the circle of his arm.\
\
\'93You take Nick and Jordan. We\'92ll follow you in the coup\'e9.\'94\
\
She walked close to Gatsby, touching his coat with her hand. Jordan\
and Tom and I got into the front seat of Gatsby\'92s car, Tom pushed the\
unfamiliar gears tentatively, and we shot off into the oppressive\
heat, leaving them out of sight behind.\
\
\'93Did you see that?\'94 demanded Tom.\
\
\'93See what?\'94\
\
He looked at me keenly, realizing that Jordan and I must have known\
all along.\
\
\'93You think I\'92m pretty dumb, don\'92t you?\'94 he suggested. \'93Perhaps I am,\
but I have a\'97almost a second sight, sometimes, that tells me what to\
do. Maybe you don\'92t believe that, but science\'97\'94\
\
He paused. The immediate contingency overtook him, pulled him back\
from the edge of theoretical abyss.\
\
\'93I\'92ve made a small investigation of this fellow,\'94 he continued. \'93I\
could have gone deeper if I\'92d known\'97\'94\
\
\'93Do you mean you\'92ve been to a medium?\'94 inquired Jordan humorously.\
\
\'93What?\'94 Confused, he stared at us as we laughed. \'93A medium?\'94\
\
\'93About Gatsby.\'94\
\
\'93About Gatsby! No, I haven\'92t. I said I\'92d been making a small\
investigation of his past.\'94\
\
\'93And you found he was an Oxford man,\'94 said Jordan helpfully.\
\
\'93An Oxford man!\'94 He was incredulous. \'93Like hell he is! He wears a pink\
suit.\'94\
\
\'93Nevertheless he\'92s an Oxford man.\'94\
\
\'93Oxford, New Mexico,\'94 snorted Tom contemptuously, \'93or something like\
that.\'94\
\
\'93Listen, Tom. If you\'92re such a snob, why did you invite him to lunch?\'94\
demanded Jordan crossly.\
\
\'93Daisy invited him; she knew him before we were married\'97God knows\
where!\'94\
\
We were all irritable now with the fading ale, and aware of it we\
drove for a while in silence. Then as Doctor T. J. Eckleburg\'92s faded\
eyes came into sight down the road, I remembered Gatsby\'92s caution\
about gasoline.\
\
\'93We\'92ve got enough to get us to town,\'94 said Tom.\
\
\'93But there\'92s a garage right here,\'94 objected Jordan. \'93I don\'92t want to\
get stalled in this baking heat.\'94\
\
Tom threw on both brakes impatiently, and we slid to an abrupt dusty\
stop under Wilson\'92s sign. After a moment the proprietor emerged from\
the interior of his establishment and gazed hollow-eyed at the car.\
\
\'93Let\'92s have some gas!\'94 cried Tom roughly. \'93What do you think we\
stopped for\'97to admire the view?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sick,\'94 said Wilson without moving. \'93Been sick all day.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m all run down.\'94\
\
\'93Well, shall I help myself?\'94 Tom demanded. \'93You sounded well enough on\
the phone.\'94\
\
With an effort Wilson left the shade and support of the doorway and,\
breathing hard, unscrewed the cap of the tank. In the sunlight his\
face was green.\
\
\'93I didn\'92t mean to interrupt your lunch,\'94 he said. \'93But I need money\
pretty bad, and I was wondering what you were going to do with your\
old car.\'94\
\
\'93How do you like this one?\'94 inquired Tom. \'93I bought it last week.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a nice yellow one,\'94 said Wilson, as he strained at the handle.\
\
\'93Like to buy it?\'94\
\
\'93Big chance,\'94 Wilson smiled faintly. \'93No, but I could make some money\
on the other.\'94\
\
\'93What do you want money for, all of a sudden?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been here too long. I want to get away. My wife and I want to go\
West.\'94\
\
\'93Your wife does,\'94 exclaimed Tom, startled.\
\
\'93She\'92s been talking about it for ten years.\'94 He rested for a moment\
against the pump, shading his eyes. \'93And now she\'92s going whether she\
wants to or not. I\'92m going to get her away.\'94\
\
The coup\'e9 flashed by us with a flurry of dust and the flash of a\
waving hand.\
\
\'93What do I owe you?\'94 demanded Tom harshly.\
\
\'93I just got wised up to something funny the last two days,\'94 remarked\
Wilson. \'93That\'92s why I want to get away. That\'92s why I been bothering\
you about the car.\'94\
\
\'93What do I owe you?\'94\
\
\'93Dollar twenty.\'94\
\
The relentless beating heat was beginning to confuse me and I had a\
bad moment there before I realized that so far his suspicions hadn\'92t\
alighted on Tom. He had discovered that Myrtle had some sort of life\
apart from him in another world, and the shock had made him physically\
sick. I stared at him and then at Tom, who had made a parallel\
discovery less than an hour before\'97and it occurred to me that there\
was no difference between men, in intelligence or race, so profound as\
the difference between the sick and the well. Wilson was so sick that\
he looked guilty, unforgivably guilty\'97as if he had just got some poor\
girl with child.\
\
\'93I\'92ll let you have that car,\'94 said Tom. \'93I\'92ll send it over tomorrow\
afternoon.\'94\
\
That locality was always vaguely disquieting, even in the broad glare\
of afternoon, and now I turned my head as though I had been warned of\
something behind. Over the ash-heaps the giant eyes of Doctor T. J.\
Eckleburg kept their vigil, but I perceived, after a moment, that\
other eyes were regarding us with peculiar intensity from less than\
twenty feet away.\
\
In one of the windows over the garage the curtains had been moved\
aside a little, and Myrtle Wilson was peering down at the car. So\
engrossed was she that she had no consciousness of being observed, and\
one emotion after another crept into her face like objects into a\
slowly developing picture. Her expression was curiously familiar\'97it\
was an expression I had often seen on women\'92s faces, but on Myrtle\
Wilson\'92s face it seemed purposeless and inexplicable until I realized\
that her eyes, wide with jealous terror, were fixed not on Tom, but on\
Jordan Baker, whom she took to be his wife.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
There is no confusion like the confusion of a simple mind, and as we\
drove away Tom was feeling the hot whips of panic. His wife and his\
mistress, until an hour ago secure and inviolate, were slipping\
precipitately from his control. Instinct made him step on the\
accelerator with the double purpose of overtaking Daisy and leaving\
Wilson behind, and we sped along toward Astoria at fifty miles an\
hour, until, among the spidery girders of the elevated, we came in\
sight of the easygoing blue coup\'e9.\
\
\'93Those big movies around Fiftieth Street are cool,\'94 suggested\
Jordan. \'93I love New York on summer afternoons when everyone\'92s away.\
There\'92s something very sensuous about it\'97overripe, as if all sorts of\
funny fruits were going to fall into your hands.\'94\
\
The word \'93sensuous\'94 had the effect of further disquieting Tom, but\
before he could invent a protest the coup\'e9 came to a stop, and Daisy\
signalled us to draw up alongside.\
\
\'93Where are we going?\'94 she cried.\
\
\'93How about the movies?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s so hot,\'94 she complained. \'93You go. We\'92ll ride around and meet you\
after.\'94 With an effort her wit rose faintly. \'93We\'92ll meet you on some\
corner. I\'92ll be the man smoking two cigarettes.\'94\
\
\'93We can\'92t argue about it here,\'94 Tom said impatiently, as a truck gave\
out a cursing whistle behind us. \'93You follow me to the south side of\
Central Park, in front of the Plaza.\'94\
\
Several times he turned his head and looked back for their car, and if\
the traffic delayed them he slowed up until they came into sight. I\
think he was afraid they would dart down a side-street and out of his\
life forever.\
\
But they didn\'92t. And we all took the less explicable step of engaging\
the parlour of a suite in the Plaza Hotel.\
\
The prolonged and tumultuous argument that ended by herding us into\
that room eludes me, though I have a sharp physical memory that, in\
the course of it, my underwear kept climbing like a damp snake around\
my legs and intermittent beads of sweat raced cool across my back.\
The notion originated with Daisy\'92s suggestion that we hire five\
bathrooms and take cold baths, and then assumed more tangible form as\
\'93a place to have a mint julep.\'94 Each of us said over and over that it\
was a \'93crazy idea\'94\'97we all talked at once to a baffled clerk and\
thought, or pretended to think, that we were being very funny \'85\
\
The room was large and stifling, and, though it was already four\
o\'92clock, opening the windows admitted only a gust of hot shrubbery\
from the Park. Daisy went to the mirror and stood with her back to us,\
fixing her hair.\
\
\'93It\'92s a swell suite,\'94 whispered Jordan respectfully, and everyone\
laughed.\
\
\'93Open another window,\'94 commanded Daisy, without turning around.\
\
\'93There aren\'92t any more.\'94\
\
\'93Well, we\'92d better telephone for an axe\'97\'94\
\
\'93The thing to do is to forget about the heat,\'94 said Tom impatiently.\
\'93You make it ten times worse by crabbing about it.\'94\
\
He unrolled the bottle of whisky from the towel and put it on the\
table.\
\
\'93Why not let her alone, old sport?\'94 remarked Gatsby. \'93You\'92re the one\
that wanted to come to town.\'94\
\
There was a moment of silence. The telephone book slipped from its\
nail and splashed to the floor, whereupon Jordan whispered, \'93Excuse\
me\'94\'97but this time no one laughed.\
\
\'93I\'92ll pick it up,\'94 I offered.\
\
\'93I\'92ve got it.\'94 Gatsby examined the parted string, muttered \'93Hum!\'94 in\
an interested way, and tossed the book on a chair.\
\
\'93That\'92s a great expression of yours, isn\'92t it?\'94 said Tom sharply.\
\
\'93What is?\'94\
\
\'93All this \'91old sport\'92 business. Where\'92d you pick that up?\'94\
\
\'93Now see here, Tom,\'94 said Daisy, turning around from the mirror, \'93if\
you\'92re going to make personal remarks I won\'92t stay here a minute.\
Call up and order some ice for the mint julep.\'94\
\
As Tom took up the receiver the compressed heat exploded into sound\
and we were listening to the portentous chords of Mendelssohn\'92s\
Wedding March from the ballroom below.\
\
\'93Imagine marrying anybody in this heat!\'94 cried Jordan dismally.\
\
\'93Still\'97I was married in the middle of June,\'94 Daisy remembered.\
\'93Louisville in June! Somebody fainted. Who was it fainted, Tom?\'94\
\
\'93Biloxi,\'94 he answered shortly.\
\
\'93A man named Biloxi. \'91Blocks\'92 Biloxi, and he made boxes\'97that\'92s a\
fact\'97and he was from Biloxi, Tennessee.\'94\
\
\'93They carried him into my house,\'94 appended Jordan, \'93because we lived\
just two doors from the church. And he stayed three weeks, until Daddy\
told him he had to get out. The day after he left Daddy died.\'94  After\
a moment she added as if she might have sounded irreverent, \'93There\
wasn\'92t any connection.\'94\
\
\'93I used to know a Bill Biloxi from Memphis,\'94 I remarked.\
\
\'93That was his cousin. I knew his whole family history before he\
left. He gave me an aluminium putter that I use today.\'94\
\
The music had died down as the ceremony began and now a long cheer\
floated in at the window, followed by intermittent cries of\
\'93Yea\'97ea\'97ea!\'94 and finally by a burst of jazz as the dancing began.\
\
\'93We\'92re getting old,\'94 said Daisy. \'93If we were young we\'92d rise and\
dance.\'94\
\
\'93Remember Biloxi,\'94 Jordan warned her. \'93Where\'92d you know him, Tom?\'94\
\
\'93Biloxi?\'94 He concentrated with an effort. \'93I didn\'92t know him. He was a\
friend of Daisy\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93He was not,\'94 she denied. \'93I\'92d never seen him before. He came down in\
the private car.\'94\
\
\'93Well, he said he knew you. He said he was raised in Louisville. Asa\
Bird brought him around at the last minute and asked if we had room\
for him.\'94\
\
Jordan smiled.\
\
\'93He was probably bumming his way home. He told me he was president of\
your class at Yale.\'94\
\
Tom and I looked at each other blankly.\
\
\'93Biloxi?\'94\
\
\'93First place, we didn\'92t have any president\'97\'94\
\
Gatsby\'92s foot beat a short, restless tattoo and Tom eyed him suddenly.\
\
\'93By the way, Mr. Gatsby, I understand you\'92re an Oxford man.\'94\
\
\'93Not exactly.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes, I understand you went to Oxford.\'94\
\
\'93Yes\'97I went there.\'94\
\
A pause. Then Tom\'92s voice, incredulous and insulting:\
\
\'93You must have gone there about the time Biloxi went to New Haven.\'94\
\
Another pause. A waiter knocked and came in with crushed mint and ice\
but the silence was unbroken by his \'93thank you\'94 and the soft closing\
of the door. This tremendous detail was to be cleared up at last.\
\
\'93I told you I went there,\'94 said Gatsby.\
\
\'93I heard you, but I\'92d like to know when.\'94\
\
\'93It was in nineteen-nineteen, I only stayed five months. That\'92s why I\
can\'92t really call myself an Oxford man.\'94\
\
Tom glanced around to see if we mirrored his unbelief. But we were all\
looking at Gatsby.\
\
\'93It was an opportunity they gave to some of the officers after the\
armistice,\'94 he continued. \'93We could go to any of the universities in\
England or France.\'94\
\
I wanted to get up and slap him on the back. I had one of those\
renewals of complete faith in him that I\'92d experienced before.\
\
Daisy rose, smiling faintly, and went to the table.\
\
\'93Open the whisky, Tom,\'94 she ordered, \'93and I\'92ll make you a mint julep.\
Then you won\'92t seem so stupid to yourself \'85 Look at the mint!\'94\
\
\'93Wait a minute,\'94 snapped Tom, \'93I want to ask Mr. Gatsby one more\
question.\'94\
\
\'93Go on,\'94 Gatsby said politely.\
\
\'93What kind of a row are you trying to cause in my house anyhow?\'94\
\
They were out in the open at last and Gatsby was content.\
\
\'93He isn\'92t causing a row,\'94 Daisy looked desperately from one to the\
other. \'93You\'92re causing a row. Please have a little self-control.\'94\
\
\'93Self-control!\'94 repeated Tom incredulously. \'93I suppose the latest\
thing is to sit back and let Mr. Nobody from Nowhere make love to your\
wife. Well, if that\'92s the idea you can count me out \'85 Nowadays people\
begin by sneering at family life and family institutions, and next\
they\'92ll throw everything overboard and have intermarriage between\
black and white.\'94\
\
Flushed with his impassioned gibberish, he saw himself standing alone\
on the last barrier of civilization.\
\
\'93We\'92re all white here,\'94 murmured Jordan.\
\
\'93I know I\'92m not very popular. I don\'92t give big parties. I suppose\
you\'92ve got to make your house into a pigsty in order to have any\
friends\'97in the modern world.\'94\
\
Angry as I was, as we all were, I was tempted to laugh whenever he\
opened his mouth. The transition from libertine to prig was so\
complete.\
\
\'93I\'92ve got something to tell you, old sport\'97\'94 began Gatsby. But Daisy\
guessed at his intention.\
\
\'93Please don\'92t!\'94 she interrupted helplessly. \'93Please let\'92s all go\
home. Why don\'92t we all go home?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a good idea,\'94 I got up. \'93Come on, Tom. Nobody wants a drink.\'94\
\
\'93I want to know what Mr. Gatsby has to tell me.\'94\
\
\'93Your wife doesn\'92t love you,\'94 said Gatsby. \'93She\'92s never loved you.\
She loves me.\'94\
\
\'93You must be crazy!\'94 exclaimed Tom automatically.\
\
Gatsby sprang to his feet, vivid with excitement.\
\
\'93She never loved you, do you hear?\'94 he cried. \'93She only married you\
because I was poor and she was tired of waiting for me. It was a\
terrible mistake, but in her heart she never loved anyone except me!\'94\
\
At this point Jordan and I tried to go, but Tom and Gatsby insisted\
with competitive firmness that we remain\'97as though neither of them had\
anything to conceal and it would be a privilege to partake vicariously\
of their emotions.\
\
\'93Sit down, Daisy,\'94 Tom\'92s voice groped unsuccessfully for the paternal\
note. \'93What\'92s been going on? I want to hear all about it.\'94\
\
\'93I told you what\'92s been going on,\'94 said Gatsby. \'93Going on for five\
years\'97and you didn\'92t know.\'94\
\
Tom turned to Daisy sharply.\
\
\'93You\'92ve been seeing this fellow for five years?\'94\
\
\'93Not seeing,\'94 said Gatsby. \'93No, we couldn\'92t meet. But both of us loved\
each other all that time, old sport, and you didn\'92t know. I used to\
laugh sometimes\'94\'97but there was no laughter in his eyes\'97\'93to think that\
you didn\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93Oh\'97that\'92s all.\'94 Tom tapped his thick fingers together like a\
clergyman and leaned back in his chair.\
\
\'93You\'92re crazy!\'94 he exploded. \'93I can\'92t speak about what happened five\
years ago, because I didn\'92t know Daisy then\'97and I\'92ll be damned if I\
see how you got within a mile of her unless you brought the groceries\
to the back door. But all the rest of that\'92s a God damned lie. Daisy\
loved me when she married me and she loves me now.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Gatsby, shaking his head.\
\
\'93She does, though. The trouble is that sometimes she gets foolish\
ideas in her head and doesn\'92t know what she\'92s doing.\'94 He nodded\
sagely. \'93And what\'92s more, I love Daisy too. Once in a while I go off\
on a spree and make a fool of myself, but I always come back, and in\
my heart I love her all the time.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re revolting,\'94 said Daisy. She turned to me, and her voice,\
dropping an octave lower, filled the room with thrilling scorn: \'93Do\
you know why we left Chicago? I\'92m surprised that they didn\'92t treat you\
to the story of that little spree.\'94\
\
Gatsby walked over and stood beside her.\
\
\'93Daisy, that\'92s all over now,\'94 he said earnestly. \'93It doesn\'92t matter\
any more. Just tell him the truth\'97that you never loved him\'97and it\'92s\
all wiped out forever.\'94\
\
She looked at him blindly. \'93Why\'97how could I love him\'97possibly?\'94\
\
\'93You never loved him.\'94\
\
She hesitated. Her eyes fell on Jordan and me with a sort of appeal,\
as though she realized at last what she was doing\'97and as though she\
had never, all along, intended doing anything at all. But it was done\
now. It was too late.\
\
\'93I never loved him,\'94 she said, with perceptible reluctance.\
\
\'93Not at Kapiolani?\'94 demanded Tom suddenly.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
From the ballroom beneath, muffled and suffocating chords were\
drifting up on hot waves of air.\
\
\'93Not that day I carried you down from the Punch Bowl to keep your\
shoes dry?\'94 There was a husky tenderness in his tone \'85 \'93Daisy?\'94\
\
\'93Please don\'92t.\'94 Her voice was cold, but the rancour was gone from it.\
She looked at Gatsby. \'93There, Jay,\'94 she said\'97but her hand as she tried\
to light a cigarette was trembling. Suddenly she threw the cigarette\
and the burning match on the carpet.\
\
\'93Oh, you want too much!\'94 she cried to Gatsby. \'93I love you now\'97isn\'92t\
that enough? I can\'92t help what\'92s past.\'94 She began to sob\
helplessly. \'93I did love him once\'97but I loved you too.\'94\
\
Gatsby\'92s eyes opened and closed.\
\
\'93You loved me too?\'94 he repeated.\
\
\'93Even that\'92s a lie,\'94 said Tom savagely. \'93She didn\'92t know you were\
alive. Why\'97there\'92s things between Daisy and me that you\'92ll never know,\
things that neither of us can ever forget.\'94\
\
The words seemed to bite physically into Gatsby.\
\
\'93I want to speak to Daisy alone,\'94 he insisted. \'93She\'92s all excited\
now\'97\'94\
\
\'93Even alone I can\'92t say I never loved Tom,\'94 she admitted in a pitiful\
voice. \'93It wouldn\'92t be true.\'94\
\
\'93Of course it wouldn\'92t,\'94 agreed Tom.\
\
She turned to her husband.\
\
\'93As if it mattered to you,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93Of course it matters. I\'92m going to take better care of you from now\
on.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t understand,\'94 said Gatsby, with a touch of panic. \'93You\'92re\
not going to take care of her any more.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not?\'94 Tom opened his eyes wide and laughed. He could afford to\
control himself now. \'93Why\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Daisy\'92s leaving you.\'94\
\
\'93Nonsense.\'94\
\
\'93I am, though,\'94 she said with a visible effort.\
\
\'93She\'92s not leaving me!\'94 Tom\'92s words suddenly leaned down over Gatsby.\
\'93Certainly not for a common swindler who\'92d have to steal the ring he\
put on her finger.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t stand this!\'94 cried Daisy. \'93Oh, please let\'92s get out.\'94\
\
\'93Who are you, anyhow?\'94 broke out Tom. \'93You\'92re one of that bunch that\
hangs around with Meyer Wolfshiem\'97that much I happen to know. I\'92ve\
made a little investigation into your affairs\'97and I\'92ll carry it\
further tomorrow.\'94\
\
\'93You can suit yourself about that, old sport,\'94 said Gatsby steadily.\
\
\'93I found out what your \'91drugstores\'92 were.\'94 He turned to us and spoke\
rapidly. \'93He and this Wolfshiem bought up a lot of side-street\
drugstores here and in Chicago and sold grain alcohol over the\
counter. That\'92s one of his little stunts. I picked him for a\
bootlegger the first time I saw him, and I wasn\'92t far wrong.\'94\
\
\'93What about it?\'94 said Gatsby politely. \'93I guess your friend Walter\
Chase wasn\'92t too proud to come in on it.\'94\
\
\'93And you left him in the lurch, didn\'92t you? You let him go to jail for\
a month over in New Jersey. God! You ought to hear Walter on the\
subject of you.\'94\
\
\'93He came to us dead broke. He was very glad to pick up some money, old\
sport.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you call me \'91old sport\'92!\'94 cried Tom. Gatsby said\
nothing. \'93Walter could have you up on the betting laws too, but\
Wolfshiem scared him into shutting his mouth.\'94\
\
That unfamiliar yet recognizable look was back again in Gatsby\'92s face.\
\
\'93That drugstore business was just small change,\'94 continued Tom slowly,\
\'93but you\'92ve got something on now that Walter\'92s afraid to tell me\
about.\'94\
\
I glanced at Daisy, who was staring terrified between Gatsby and her\
husband, and at Jordan, who had begun to balance an invisible but\
absorbing object on the tip of her chin. Then I turned back to\
Gatsby\'97and was startled at his expression. He looked\'97and this is said\
in all contempt for the babbled slander of his garden\'97as if he had\
\'93killed a man.\'94 For a moment the set of his face could be described in\
just that fantastic way.\
\
It passed, and he began to talk excitedly to Daisy, denying\
everything, defending his name against accusations that had not been\
made. But with every word she was drawing further and further into\
herself, so he gave that up, and only the dead dream fought on as the\
afternoon slipped away, trying to touch what was no longer tangible,\
struggling unhappily, undespairingly, toward that lost voice across\
the room.\
\
The voice begged again to go.\
\
\'93Please, Tom! I can\'92t stand this any more.\'94\
\
Her frightened eyes told that whatever intentions, whatever courage\
she had had, were definitely gone.\
\
\'93You two start on home, Daisy,\'94 said Tom. \'93In Mr. Gatsby\'92s car.\'94\
\
She looked at Tom, alarmed now, but he insisted with magnanimous\
scorn.\
\
\'93Go on. He won\'92t annoy you. I think he realizes that his presumptuous\
little flirtation is over.\'94\
\
They were gone, without a word, snapped out, made accidental,\
isolated, like ghosts, even from our pity.\
\
After a moment Tom got up and began wrapping the unopened bottle of\
whisky in the towel.\
\
\'93Want any of this stuff? Jordan? \'85 Nick?\'94\
\
I didn\'92t answer.\
\
\'93Nick?\'94 He asked again.\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93Want any?\'94\
\
\'93No \'85 I just remembered that today\'92s my birthday.\'94\
\
I was thirty. Before me stretched the portentous, menacing road of a\
new decade.\
\
It was seven o\'92clock when we got into the coup\'e9 with him and started\
for Long Island. Tom talked incessantly, exulting and laughing, but\
his voice was as remote from Jordan and me as the foreign clamour on\
the sidewalk or the tumult of the elevated overhead. Human sympathy\
has its limits, and we were content to let all their tragic arguments\
fade with the city lights behind. Thirty\'97the promise of a decade of\
loneliness, a thinning list of single men to know, a thinning\
briefcase of enthusiasm, thinning hair. But there was Jordan beside\
me, who, unlike Daisy, was too wise ever to carry well-forgotten\
dreams from age to age. As we passed over the dark bridge her wan face\
fell lazily against my coat\'92s shoulder and the formidable stroke of\
thirty died away with the reassuring pressure of her hand.\
\
So we drove on toward death through the cooling twilight.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
The young Greek, Michaelis, who ran the coffee joint beside the\
ash-heaps was the principal witness at the inquest. He had slept\
through the heat until after five, when he strolled over to the\
garage, and found George Wilson sick in his office\'97really sick, pale\
as his own pale hair and shaking all over. Michaelis advised him to go\
to bed, but Wilson refused, saying that he\'92d miss a lot of business if\
he did. While his neighbour was trying to persuade him a violent\
racket broke out overhead.\
\
\'93I\'92ve got my wife locked in up there,\'94 explained Wilson calmly.\
\'93She\'92s going to stay there till the day after tomorrow, and then we\'92re\
going to move away.\'94\
\
Michaelis was astonished; they had been neighbours for four years, and\
Wilson had never seemed faintly capable of such a statement.\
Generally he was one of these worn-out men: when he wasn\'92t working, he\
sat on a chair in the doorway and stared at the people and the cars\
that passed along the road. When anyone spoke to him he invariably\
laughed in an agreeable, colourless way. He was his wife\'92s man and not\
his own.\
\
So naturally Michaelis tried to find out what had happened, but Wilson\
wouldn\'92t say a word\'97instead he began to throw curious, suspicious\
glances at his visitor and ask him what he\'92d been doing at certain\
times on certain days. Just as the latter was getting uneasy, some\
workmen came past the door bound for his restaurant, and Michaelis\
took the opportunity to get away, intending to come back later. But he\
didn\'92t. He supposed he forgot to, that\'92s all. When he came outside\
again, a little after seven, he was reminded of the conversation\
because he heard Mrs. Wilson\'92s voice, loud and scolding, downstairs in\
the garage.\
\
\'93Beat me!\'94 he heard her cry. \'93Throw me down and beat me, you dirty\
little coward!\'94\
\
A moment later she rushed out into the dusk, waving her hands and\
shouting\'97before he could move from his door the business was over.\
\
The \'93death car\'94 as the newspapers called it, didn\'92t stop; it came out\
of the gathering darkness, wavered tragically for a moment, and then\
disappeared around the next bend. Mavro Michaelis wasn\'92t even sure of\
its colour\'97he told the first policeman that it was light green. The\
other car, the one going toward New York, came to rest a hundred yards\
beyond, and its driver hurried back to where Myrtle Wilson, her life\
violently extinguished, knelt in the road and mingled her thick dark\
blood with the dust.\
\
Michaelis and this man reached her first, but when they had torn open\
her shirtwaist, still damp with perspiration, they saw that her left\
breast was swinging loose like a flap, and there was no need to listen\
for the heart beneath. The mouth was wide open and ripped a little at\
the corners, as though she had choked a little in giving up the\
tremendous vitality she had stored so long.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
We saw the three or four automobiles and the crowd when we were still\
some distance away.\
\
\'93Wreck!\'94 said Tom. \'93That\'92s good. Wilson\'92ll have a little business at\
last.\'94\
\
He slowed down, but still without any intention of stopping, until, as\
we came nearer, the hushed, intent faces of the people at the garage\
door made him automatically put on the brakes.\
\
\'93We\'92ll take a look,\'94 he said doubtfully, \'93just a look.\'94\
\
I became aware now of a hollow, wailing sound which issued incessantly\
from the garage, a sound which as we got out of the coup\'e9 and walked\
toward the door resolved itself into the words \'93Oh, my God!\'94 uttered\
over and over in a gasping moan.\
\
\'93There\'92s some bad trouble here,\'94 said Tom excitedly.\
\
He reached up on tiptoes and peered over a circle of heads into the\
garage, which was lit only by a yellow light in a swinging metal\
basket overhead. Then he made a harsh sound in his throat, and with a\
violent thrusting movement of his powerful arms pushed his way\
through.\
\
The circle closed up again with a running murmur of expostulation; it\
was a minute before I could see anything at all. Then new arrivals\
deranged the line, and Jordan and I were pushed suddenly inside.\
\
Myrtle Wilson\'92s body, wrapped in a blanket, and then in another\
blanket, as though she suffered from a chill in the hot night, lay on\
a worktable by the wall, and Tom, with his back to us, was bending\
over it, motionless. Next to him stood a motorcycle policeman taking\
down names with much sweat and correction in a little book. At first I\
couldn\'92t find the source of the high, groaning words that echoed\
clamorously through the bare garage\'97then I saw Wilson standing on the\
raised threshold of his office, swaying back and forth and holding to\
the doorposts with both hands. Some man was talking to him in a low\
voice and attempting, from time to time, to lay a hand on his\
shoulder, but Wilson neither heard nor saw. His eyes would drop slowly\
from the swinging light to the laden table by the wall, and then jerk\
back to the light again, and he gave out incessantly his high,\
horrible call:\
\
\'93Oh, my Ga-od! Oh, my Ga-od! Oh, Ga-od! Oh, my Ga-od!\'94\
\
Presently Tom lifted his head with a jerk and, after staring around\
the garage with glazed eyes, addressed a mumbled incoherent remark to\
the policeman.\
\
\'93M-a-v\'97\'94 the policeman was saying, \'93\'97o\'97\'94\
\
\'93No, r\'97\'94 corrected the man, \'93M-a-v-r-o\'97\'94\
\
\'93Listen to me!\'94 muttered Tom fiercely.\
\
\'93r\'97\'94 said the policeman, \'93o\'97\'94\
\
\'93g\'97\'94\
\
\'93g\'97\'94 He looked up as Tom\'92s broad hand fell sharply on his shoulder.\
\'93What you want, fella?\'94\
\
\'93What happened?\'97that\'92s what I want to know.\'94\
\
\'93Auto hit her. Ins\'92antly killed.\'94\
\
\'93Instantly killed,\'94 repeated Tom, staring.\
\
\'93She ran out ina road. Son-of-a-bitch didn\'92t even stopus car.\'94\
\
\'93There was two cars,\'94 said Michaelis, \'93one comin\'92, one goin\'92, see?\'94\
\
\'93Going where?\'94 asked the policeman keenly.\
\
\'93One goin\'92 each way. Well, she\'94\'97his hand rose toward the blankets but\
stopped halfway and fell to his side\'97\'93she ran out there an\'92 the one\
comin\'92 from N\'92York knock right into her, goin\'92 thirty or forty miles\
an hour.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the name of this place here?\'94 demanded the officer.\
\
\'93Hasn\'92t got any name.\'94\
\
A pale well-dressed negro stepped near.\
\
\'93It was a yellow car,\'94 he said, \'93big yellow car. New.\'94\
\
\'93See the accident?\'94 asked the policeman.\
\
\'93No, but the car passed me down the road, going faster\'92n forty. Going\
fifty, sixty.\'94\
\
\'93Come here and let\'92s have your name. Look out now. I want to get his\
name.\'94\
\
Some words of this conversation must have reached Wilson, swaying in\
the office door, for suddenly a new theme found voice among his\
grasping cries:\
\
\'93You don\'92t have to tell me what kind of car it was! I know what kind\
of car it was!\'94\
\
Watching Tom, I saw the wad of muscle back of his shoulder tighten\
under his coat. He walked quickly over to Wilson and, standing in\
front of him, seized him firmly by the upper arms.\
\
\'93You\'92ve got to pull yourself together,\'94 he said with soothing\
gruffness.\
\
Wilson\'92s eyes fell upon Tom; he started up on his tiptoes and then\
would have collapsed to his knees had not Tom held him upright.\
\
\'93Listen,\'94 said Tom, shaking him a little. \'93I just got here a minute\
ago, from New York. I was bringing you that coup\'e9 we\'92ve been talking\
about. That yellow car I was driving this afternoon wasn\'92t mine\'97do you\
hear? I haven\'92t seen it all afternoon.\'94\
\
Only the negro and I were near enough to hear what he said, but the\
policeman caught something in the tone and looked over with truculent\
eyes.\
\
\'93What\'92s all that?\'94 he demanded.\
\
\'93I\'92m a friend of his.\'94 Tom turned his head but kept his hands firm on\
Wilson\'92s body. \'93He says he knows the car that did it \'85 It was a yellow\
car.\'94\
\
Some dim impulse moved the policeman to look suspiciously at Tom.\
\
\'93And what colour\'92s your car?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a blue car, a coup\'e9.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve come straight from New York,\'94 I said.\
\
Someone who had been driving a little behind us confirmed this, and\
the policeman turned away.\
\
\'93Now, if you\'92ll let me have that name again correct\'97\'94\
\
Picking up Wilson like a doll, Tom carried him into the office, set\
him down in a chair, and came back.\
\
\'93If somebody\'92ll come here and sit with him,\'94 he snapped\
authoritatively. He watched while the two men standing closest glanced\
at each other and went unwillingly into the room. Then Tom shut the\
door on them and came down the single step, his eyes avoiding the\
table. As he passed close to me he whispered: \'93Let\'92s get out.\'94\
\
Self-consciously, with his authoritative arms breaking the way, we\
pushed through the still gathering crowd, passing a hurried doctor,\
case in hand, who had been sent for in wild hope half an hour ago.\
\
Tom drove slowly until we were beyond the bend\'97then his foot came down\
hard, and the coup\'e9 raced along through the night. In a little while I\
heard a low husky sob, and saw that the tears were overflowing down\
his face.\
\
\'93The God damned coward!\'94 he whimpered. \'93He didn\'92t even stop his car.\'94\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
The Buchanans\'92 house floated suddenly toward us through the dark\
rustling trees. Tom stopped beside the porch and looked up at the\
second floor, where two windows bloomed with light among the vines.\
\
\'93Daisy\'92s home,\'94 he said. As we got out of the car he glanced at me and\
frowned slightly.\
\
\'93I ought to have dropped you in West Egg, Nick. There\'92s nothing we can\
do tonight.\'94\
\
A change had come over him, and he spoke gravely, and with decision.\
As we walked across the moonlight gravel to the porch he disposed of\
the situation in a few brisk phrases.\
\
\'93I\'92ll telephone for a taxi to take you home, and while you\'92re waiting\
you and Jordan better go in the kitchen and have them get you some\
supper\'97if you want any.\'94 He opened the door. \'93Come in.\'94\
\
\'93No, thanks. But I\'92d be glad if you\'92d order me the taxi. I\'92ll wait\
outside.\'94\
\
Jordan put her hand on my arm.\
\
\'93Won\'92t you come in, Nick?\'94\
\
\'93No, thanks.\'94\
\
I was feeling a little sick and I wanted to be alone. But Jordan\
lingered for a moment more.\
\
\'93It\'92s only half-past nine,\'94 she said.\
\
I\'92d be damned if I\'92d go in; I\'92d had enough of all of them for one day,\
and suddenly that included Jordan too. She must have seen something of\
this in my expression, for she turned abruptly away and ran up the\
porch steps into the house. I sat down for a few minutes with my head\
in my hands, until I heard the phone taken up inside and the butler\'92s\
voice calling a taxi. Then I walked slowly down the drive away from\
the house, intending to wait by the gate.\
\
I hadn\'92t gone twenty yards when I heard my name and Gatsby stepped\
from between two bushes into the path. I must have felt pretty weird\
by that time, because I could think of nothing except the luminosity\
of his pink suit under the moon.\
\
\'93What are you doing?\'94 I inquired.\
\
\'93Just standing here, old sport.\'94\
\
Somehow, that seemed a despicable occupation. For all I knew he was\
going to rob the house in a moment; I wouldn\'92t have been surprised to\
see sinister faces, the faces of \'93Wolfshiem\'92s people,\'94 behind him in\
the dark shrubbery.\
\
\'93Did you see any trouble on the road?\'94 he asked after a minute.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
He hesitated.\
\
\'93Was she killed?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93I thought so; I told Daisy I thought so. It\'92s better that the shock\
should all come at once. She stood it pretty well.\'94\
\
He spoke as if Daisy\'92s reaction was the only thing that mattered.\
\
\'93I got to West Egg by a side road,\'94 he went on, \'93and left the car in\
my garage. I don\'92t think anybody saw us, but of course I can\'92t be\
sure.\'94\
\
I disliked him so much by this time that I didn\'92t find it necessary to\
tell him he was wrong.\
\
\'93Who was the woman?\'94 he inquired.\
\
\'93Her name was Wilson. Her husband owns the garage. How the devil did\
it happen?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I tried to swing the wheel\'97\'94 He broke off, and suddenly I\
guessed at the truth.\
\
\'93Was Daisy driving?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 he said after a moment, \'93but of course I\'92ll say I was. You see,\
when we left New York she was very nervous and she thought it would\
steady her to drive\'97and this woman rushed out at us just as we were\
passing a car coming the other way. It all happened in a minute, but\
it seemed to me that she wanted to speak to us, thought we were\
somebody she knew. Well, first Daisy turned away from the woman toward\
the other car, and then she lost her nerve and turned back. The second\
my hand reached the wheel I felt the shock\'97it must have killed her\
instantly.\'94\
\
\'93It ripped her open\'97\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t tell me, old sport.\'94 He winced. \'93Anyhow\'97Daisy stepped on it. I\
tried to make her stop, but she couldn\'92t, so I pulled on the emergency\
brake. Then she fell over into my lap and I drove on.\
\
\'93She\'92ll be all right tomorrow,\'94 he said presently. \'93I\'92m just going to\
wait here and see if he tries to bother her about that unpleasantness\
this afternoon. She\'92s locked herself into her room, and if he tries\
any brutality she\'92s going to turn the light out and on again.\'94\
\
\'93He won\'92t touch her,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s not thinking about her.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t trust him, old sport.\'94\
\
\'93How long are you going to wait?\'94\
\
\'93All night, if necessary. Anyhow, till they all go to bed.\'94\
\
A new point of view occurred to me. Suppose Tom found out that Daisy\
had been driving. He might think he saw a connection in it\'97he might\
think anything. I looked at the house; there were two or three bright\
windows downstairs and the pink glow from Daisy\'92s room on the ground\
floor.\
\
\'93You wait here,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll see if there\'92s any sign of a\
commotion.\'94\
\
I walked back along the border of the lawn, traversed the gravel\
softly, and tiptoed up the veranda steps. The drawing-room curtains\
were open, and I saw that the room was empty. Crossing the porch where\
we had dined that June night three months before, I came to a small\
rectangle of light which I guessed was the pantry window. The blind\
was drawn, but I found a rift at the sill.\
\
Daisy and Tom were sitting opposite each other at the kitchen table,\
with a plate of cold fried chicken between them, and two bottles of\
ale. He was talking intently across the table at her, and in his\
earnestness his hand had fallen upon and covered her own. Once in a\
while she looked up at him and nodded in agreement.\
\
They weren\'92t happy, and neither of them had touched the chicken or the\
ale\'97and yet they weren\'92t unhappy either. There was an unmistakable air\
of natural intimacy about the picture, and anybody would have said\
that they were conspiring together.\
\
As I tiptoed from the porch I heard my taxi feeling its way along the\
dark road toward the house. Gatsby was waiting where I had left him in\
the drive.\
\
\'93Is it all quiet up there?\'94 he asked anxiously.\
\
\'93Yes, it\'92s all quiet.\'94 I hesitated. \'93You\'92d better come home and get\
some sleep.\'94\
\
He shook his head.\
\
\'93I want to wait here till Daisy goes to bed. Good night, old sport.\'94\
\
He put his hands in his coat pockets and turned back eagerly to his\
scrutiny of the house, as though my presence marred the sacredness of\
the vigil. So I walked away and left him standing there in the\
moonlight\'97watching over nothing.\
\
\
                                 VIII\
\
I couldn\'92t sleep all night; a foghorn was groaning incessantly on the\
Sound, and I tossed half-sick between grotesque reality and savage,\
frightening dreams. Toward dawn I heard a taxi go up Gatsby\'92s drive,\
and immediately I jumped out of bed and began to dress\'97I felt that I\
had something to tell him, something to warn him about, and morning\
would be too late.\
\
Crossing his lawn, I saw that his front door was still open and he was\
leaning against a table in the hall, heavy with dejection or sleep.\
\
\'93Nothing happened,\'94 he said wanly. \'93I waited, and about four o\'92clock\
she came to the window and stood there for a minute and then turned\
out the light.\'94\
\
His house had never seemed so enormous to me as it did that night when\
we hunted through the great rooms for cigarettes. We pushed aside\
curtains that were like pavilions, and felt over innumerable feet of\
dark wall for electric light switches\'97once I tumbled with a sort of\
splash upon the keys of a ghostly piano. There was an inexplicable\
amount of dust everywhere, and the rooms were musty, as though they\
hadn\'92t been aired for many days. I found the humidor on an unfamiliar\
table, with two stale, dry cigarettes inside. Throwing open the French\
windows of the drawing-room, we sat smoking out into the darkness.\
\
\'93You ought to go away,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s pretty certain they\'92ll trace\
your car.\'94\
\
\'93Go away now, old sport?\'94\
\
\'93Go to Atlantic City for a week, or up to Montreal.\'94\
\
He wouldn\'92t consider it. He couldn\'92t possibly leave Daisy until he\
knew what she was going to do. He was clutching at some last hope and\
I couldn\'92t bear to shake him free.\
\
It was this night that he told me the strange story of his youth with\
Dan Cody\'97told it to me because \'93Jay Gatsby\'94 had broken up like glass\
against Tom\'92s hard malice, and the long secret extravaganza was played\
out. I think that he would have acknowledged anything now, without\
reserve, but he wanted to talk about Daisy.\
\
She was the first \'93nice\'94 girl he had ever known. In various unrevealed\
capacities he had come in contact with such people, but always with\
indiscernible barbed wire between. He found her excitingly\
desirable. He went to her house, at first with other officers from\
Camp Taylor, then alone. It amazed him\'97he had never been in such a\
beautiful house before. But what gave it an air of breathless\
intensity, was that Daisy lived there\'97it was as casual a thing to her\
as his tent out at camp was to him. There was a ripe mystery about it,\
a hint of bedrooms upstairs more beautiful and cool than other\
bedrooms, of gay and radiant activities taking place through its\
corridors, and of romances that were not musty and laid away already\
in lavender but fresh and breathing and redolent of this year\'92s\
shining motorcars and of dances whose flowers were scarcely\
withered. It excited him, too, that many men had already loved\
Daisy\'97it increased her value in his eyes. He felt their presence all\
about the house, pervading the air with the shades and echoes of still\
vibrant emotions.\
\
But he knew that he was in Daisy\'92s house by a colossal\
accident. However glorious might be his future as Jay Gatsby, he was\
at present a penniless young man without a past, and at any moment the\
invisible cloak of his uniform might slip from his shoulders. So he\
made the most of his time. He took what he could get, ravenously and\
unscrupulously\'97eventually he took Daisy one still October night, took\
her because he had no real right to touch her hand.\
\
He might have despised himself, for he had certainly taken her under\
false pretences. I don\'92t mean that he had traded on his phantom\
millions, but he had deliberately given Daisy a sense of security; he\
let her believe that he was a person from much the same strata as\
herself\'97that he was fully able to take care of her. As a matter of\
fact, he had no such facilities\'97he had no comfortable family standing\
behind him, and he was liable at the whim of an impersonal government\
to be blown anywhere about the world.\
\
But he didn\'92t despise himself and it didn\'92t turn out as he had\
imagined. He had intended, probably, to take what he could and go\'97but\
now he found that he had committed himself to the following of a\
grail. He knew that Daisy was extraordinary, but he didn\'92t realize\
just how extraordinary a \'93nice\'94 girl could be. She vanished into her\
rich house, into her rich, full life, leaving Gatsby\'97nothing. He felt\
married to her, that was all.\
\
When they met again, two days later, it was Gatsby who was breathless,\
who was, somehow, betrayed. Her porch was bright with the bought\
luxury of star-shine; the wicker of the settee squeaked fashionably as\
she turned toward him and he kissed her curious and lovely mouth. She\
had caught a cold, and it made her voice huskier and more charming\
than ever, and Gatsby was overwhelmingly aware of the youth and\
mystery that wealth imprisons and preserves, of the freshness of many\
clothes, and of Daisy, gleaming like silver, safe and proud above the\
hot struggles of the poor.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
\'93I can\'92t describe to you how surprised I was to find out I loved her,\
old sport. I even hoped for a while that she\'92d throw me over, but she\
didn\'92t, because she was in love with me too. She thought I knew a lot\
because I knew different things from her \'85 Well, there I was, way off\
my ambitions, getting deeper in love every minute, and all of a sudden\
I didn\'92t care. What was the use of doing great things if I could have\
a better time telling her what I was going to do?\'94\
\
On the last afternoon before he went abroad, he sat with Daisy in his\
arms for a long, silent time. It was a cold fall day, with fire in the\
room and her cheeks flushed. Now and then she moved and he changed his\
arm a little, and once he kissed her dark shining hair. The afternoon\
had made them tranquil for a while, as if to give them a deep memory\
for the long parting the next day promised. They had never been closer\
in their month of love, nor communicated more profoundly one with\
another, than when she brushed silent lips against his coat\'92s shoulder\
or when he touched the end of her fingers, gently, as though she were\
asleep.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
He did extraordinarily well in the war. He was a captain before he\
went to the front, and following the Argonne battles he got his\
majority and the command of the divisional machine-guns. After the\
armistice he tried frantically to get home, but some complication or\
misunderstanding sent him to Oxford instead. He was worried now\'97there\
was a quality of nervous despair in Daisy\'92s letters. She didn\'92t see\
why he couldn\'92t come. She was feeling the pressure of the world\
outside, and she wanted to see him and feel his presence beside her\
and be reassured that she was doing the right thing after all.\
\
For Daisy was young and her artificial world was redolent of orchids\
and pleasant, cheerful snobbery and orchestras which set the rhythm of\
the year, summing up the sadness and suggestiveness of life in new\
tunes. All night the saxophones wailed the hopeless comment of the\
\'93Beale Street Blues\'94 while a hundred pairs of golden and silver\
slippers shuffled the shining dust. At the grey tea hour there were\
always rooms that throbbed incessantly with this low, sweet fever,\
while fresh faces drifted here and there like rose petals blown by the\
sad horns around the floor.\
\
Through this twilight universe Daisy began to move again with the\
season; suddenly she was again keeping half a dozen dates a day with\
half a dozen men, and drowsing asleep at dawn with the beads and\
chiffon of an evening-dress tangled among dying orchids on the floor\
beside her bed. And all the time something within her was crying for a\
decision. She wanted her life shaped now, immediately\'97and the decision\
must be made by some force\'97of love, of money, of unquestionable\
practicality\'97that was close at hand.\
\
That force took shape in the middle of spring with the arrival of Tom\
Buchanan. There was a wholesome bulkiness about his person and his\
position, and Daisy was flattered. Doubtless there was a certain\
struggle and a certain relief. The letter reached Gatsby while he was\
still at Oxford.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
It was dawn now on Long Island and we went about opening the rest of\
the windows downstairs, filling the house with grey-turning,\
gold-turning light. The shadow of a tree fell abruptly across the dew\
and ghostly birds began to sing among the blue leaves. There was a\
slow, pleasant movement in the air, scarcely a wind, promising a cool,\
lovely day.\
\
\'93I don\'92t think she ever loved him.\'94 Gatsby turned around from a window\
and looked at me challengingly. \'93You must remember, old sport, she was\
very excited this afternoon. He told her those things in a way that\
frightened her\'97that made it look as if I was some kind of cheap\
sharper. And the result was she hardly knew what she was saying.\'94\
\
He sat down gloomily.\
\
\'93Of course she might have loved him just for a minute, when they were\
first married\'97and loved me more even then, do you see?\'94\
\
Suddenly he came out with a curious remark.\
\
\'93In any case,\'94 he said, \'93it was just personal.\'94\
\
What could you make of that, except to suspect some intensity in his\
conception of the affair that couldn\'92t be measured?\
\
He came back from France when Tom and Daisy were still on their\
wedding trip, and made a miserable but irresistible journey to\
Louisville on the last of his army pay. He stayed there a week,\
walking the streets where their footsteps had clicked together through\
the November night and revisiting the out-of-the-way places to which\
they had driven in her white car. Just as Daisy\'92s house had always\
seemed to him more mysterious and gay than other houses, so his idea\
of the city itself, even though she was gone from it, was pervaded\
with a melancholy beauty.\
\
He left feeling that if he had searched harder, he might have found\
her\'97that he was leaving her behind. The day-coach\'97he was penniless\
now\'97was hot. He went out to the open vestibule and sat down on a\
folding-chair, and the station slid away and the backs of unfamiliar\
buildings moved by. Then out into the spring fields, where a yellow\
trolley raced them for a minute with people in it who might once have\
seen the pale magic of her face along the casual street.\
\
The track curved and now it was going away from the sun, which, as it\
sank lower, seemed to spread itself in benediction over the vanishing\
city where she had drawn her breath. He stretched out his hand\
desperately as if to snatch only a wisp of air, to save a fragment of\
the spot that she had made lovely for him. But it was all going by too\
fast now for his blurred eyes and he knew that he had lost that part\
of it, the freshest and the best, forever.\
\
It was nine o\'92clock when we finished breakfast and went out on the\
porch. The night had made a sharp difference in the weather and there\
was an autumn flavour in the air. The gardener, the last one of\
Gatsby\'92s former servants, came to the foot of the steps.\
\
\'93I\'92m going to drain the pool today, Mr. Gatsby. Leaves\'92ll start\
falling pretty soon, and then there\'92s always trouble with the pipes.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t do it today,\'94 Gatsby answered. He turned to me apologetically.\
\'93You know, old sport, I\'92ve never used that pool all summer?\'94\
\
I looked at my watch and stood up.\
\
\'93Twelve minutes to my train.\'94\
\
I didn\'92t want to go to the city. I wasn\'92t worth a decent stroke of\
work, but it was more than that\'97I didn\'92t want to leave Gatsby. I\
missed that train, and then another, before I could get myself away.\
\
\'93I\'92ll call you up,\'94 I said finally.\
\
\'93Do, old sport.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll call you about noon.\'94\
\
We walked slowly down the steps.\
\
\'93I suppose Daisy\'92ll call too.\'94 He looked at me anxiously, as if he\
hoped I\'92d corroborate this.\
\
\'93I suppose so.\'94\
\
\'93Well, goodbye.\'94\
\
We shook hands and I started away. Just before I reached the hedge I\
remembered something and turned around.\
\
\'93They\'92re a rotten crowd,\'94 I shouted across the lawn. \'93You\'92re worth the\
whole damn bunch put together.\'94\
\
I\'92ve always been glad I said that. It was the only compliment I ever\
gave him, because I disapproved of him from beginning to end. First he\
nodded politely, and then his face broke into that radiant and\
understanding smile, as if we\'92d been in ecstatic cahoots on that fact\
all the time. His gorgeous pink rag of a suit made a bright spot of\
colour against the white steps, and I thought of the night when I\
first came to his ancestral home, three months before. The lawn and\
drive had been crowded with the faces of those who guessed at his\
corruption\'97and he had stood on those steps, concealing his\
incorruptible dream, as he waved them goodbye.\
\
I thanked him for his hospitality. We were always thanking him for\
that\'97I and the others.\
\
\'93Goodbye,\'94 I called. \'93I enjoyed breakfast, Gatsby.\'94\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
Up in the city, I tried for a while to list the quotations on an\
interminable amount of stock, then I fell asleep in my swivel-chair.\
Just before noon the phone woke me, and I started up with sweat\
breaking out on my forehead. It was Jordan Baker; she often called me\
up at this hour because the uncertainty of her own movements between\
hotels and clubs and private houses made her hard to find in any other\
way. Usually her voice came over the wire as something fresh and cool,\
as if a divot from a green golf-links had come sailing in at the\
office window, but this morning it seemed harsh and dry.\
\
\'93I\'92ve left Daisy\'92s house,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m at Hempstead, and I\'92m going\
down to Southampton this afternoon.\'94\
\
Probably it had been tactful to leave Daisy\'92s house, but the act\
annoyed me, and her next remark made me rigid.\
\
\'93You weren\'92t so nice to me last night.\'94\
\
\'93How could it have mattered then?\'94\
\
Silence for a moment. Then:\
\
\'93However\'97I want to see you.\'94\
\
\'93I want to see you, too.\'94\
\
\'93Suppose I don\'92t go to Southampton, and come into town this\
afternoon?\'94\
\
\'93No\'97I don\'92t think this afternoon.\'94\
\
\'93Very well.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s impossible this afternoon. Various\'97\'94\
\
We talked like that for a while, and then abruptly we weren\'92t talking\
any longer. I don\'92t know which of us hung up with a sharp click, but I\
know I didn\'92t care. I couldn\'92t have talked to her across a tea-table\
that day if I never talked to her again in this world.\
\
I called Gatsby\'92s house a few minutes later, but the line was busy. I\
tried four times; finally an exasperated central told me the wire was\
being kept open for long distance from Detroit. Taking out my\
timetable, I drew a small circle around the three-fifty train. Then I\
leaned back in my chair and tried to think. It was just noon.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
When I passed the ash-heaps on the train that morning I had crossed\
deliberately to the other side of the car. I supposed there\'92d be a\
curious crowd around there all day with little boys searching for dark\
spots in the dust, and some garrulous man telling over and over what\
had happened, until it became less and less real even to him and he\
could tell it no longer, and Myrtle Wilson\'92s tragic achievement was\
forgotten. Now I want to go back a little and tell what happened at\
the garage after we left there the night before.\
\
They had difficulty in locating the sister, Catherine. She must have\
broken her rule against drinking that night, for when she arrived she\
was stupid with liquor and unable to understand that the ambulance had\
already gone to Flushing. When they convinced her of this, she\
immediately fainted, as if that was the intolerable part of the\
affair. Someone, kind or curious, took her in his car and drove her in\
the wake of her sister\'92s body.\
\
Until long after midnight a changing crowd lapped up against the front\
of the garage, while George Wilson rocked himself back and forth on\
the couch inside. For a while the door of the office was open, and\
everyone who came into the garage glanced irresistibly through it.\
Finally someone said it was a shame, and closed the door. Michaelis\
and several other men were with him; first, four or five men, later\
two or three men. Still later Michaelis had to ask the last stranger\
to wait there fifteen minutes longer, while he went back to his own\
place and made a pot of coffee. After that, he stayed there alone with\
Wilson until dawn.\
\
About three o\'92clock the quality of Wilson\'92s incoherent muttering\
changed\'97he grew quieter and began to talk about the yellow car. He\
announced that he had a way of finding out whom the yellow car\
belonged to, and then he blurted out that a couple of months ago his\
wife had come from the city with her face bruised and her nose\
swollen.\
\
But when he heard himself say this, he flinched and began to cry \'93Oh,\
my God!\'94 again in his groaning voice. Michaelis made a clumsy attempt\
to distract him.\
\
\'93How long have you been married, George? Come on there, try and sit\
still a minute, and answer my question. How long have you been\
married?\'94\
\
\'93Twelve years.\'94\
\
\'93Ever had any children? Come on, George, sit still\'97I asked you a\
question. Did you ever have any children?\'94\
\
The hard brown beetles kept thudding against the dull light, and\
whenever Michaelis heard a car go tearing along the road outside it\
sounded to him like the car that hadn\'92t stopped a few hours before.\
He didn\'92t like to go into the garage, because the work bench was\
stained where the body had been lying, so he moved uncomfortably\
around the office\'97he knew every object in it before morning\'97and from\
time to time sat down beside Wilson trying to keep him more quiet.\
\
\'93Have you got a church you go to sometimes, George? Maybe even if you\
haven\'92t been there for a long time? Maybe I could call up the church\
and get a priest to come over and he could talk to you, see?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t belong to any.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to have a church, George, for times like this. You must\
have gone to church once. Didn\'92t you get married in a church? Listen,\
George, listen to me. Didn\'92t you get married in a church?\'94\
\
\'93That was a long time ago.\'94\
\
The effort of answering broke the rhythm of his rocking\'97for a moment\
he was silent. Then the same half-knowing, half-bewildered look came\
back into his faded eyes.\
\
\'93Look in the drawer there,\'94 he said, pointing at the desk.\
\
\'93Which drawer?\'94\
\
\'93That drawer\'97that one.\'94\
\
Michaelis opened the drawer nearest his hand. There was nothing in it\
but a small, expensive dog-leash, made of leather and braided\
silver. It was apparently new.\
\
\'93This?\'94 he inquired, holding it up.\
\
Wilson stared and nodded.\
\
\'93I found it yesterday afternoon. She tried to tell me about it, but I\
knew it was something funny.\'94\
\
\'93You mean your wife bought it?\'94\
\
\'93She had it wrapped in tissue paper on her bureau.\'94\
\
Michaelis didn\'92t see anything odd in that, and he gave Wilson a dozen\
reasons why his wife might have bought the dog-leash. But conceivably\
Wilson had heard some of these same explanations before, from Myrtle,\
because he began saying \'93Oh, my God!\'94 again in a whisper\'97his comforter\
left several explanations in the air.\
\
\'93Then he killed her,\'94 said Wilson. His mouth dropped open suddenly.\
\
\'93Who did?\'94\
\
\'93I have a way of finding out.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re morbid, George,\'94 said his friend. \'93This has been a strain to\
you and you don\'92t know what you\'92re saying. You\'92d better try and sit\
quiet till morning.\'94\
\
\'93He murdered her.\'94\
\
\'93It was an accident, George.\'94\
\
Wilson shook his head. His eyes narrowed and his mouth widened\
slightly with the ghost of a superior \'93Hm!\'94\
\
\'93I know,\'94 he said definitely. \'93I\'92m one of these trusting fellas and I\
don\'92t think any harm to nobody, but when I get to know a thing I know\
it. It was the man in that car. She ran out to speak to him and he\
wouldn\'92t stop.\'94\
\
Michaelis had seen this too, but it hadn\'92t occurred to him that there\
was any special significance in it. He believed that Mrs. Wilson had\
been running away from her husband, rather than trying to stop any\
particular car.\
\
\'93How could she of been like that?\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s a deep one,\'94 said Wilson, as if that answered the question.\
\'93Ah-h-h\'97\'94\
\
He began to rock again, and Michaelis stood twisting the leash in his\
hand.\
\
\'93Maybe you got some friend that I could telephone for, George?\'94\
\
This was a forlorn hope\'97he was almost sure that Wilson had no friend:\
there was not enough of him for his wife. He was glad a little later\
when he noticed a change in the room, a blue quickening by the window,\
and realized that dawn wasn\'92t far off. About five o\'92clock it was blue\
enough outside to snap off the light.\
\
Wilson\'92s glazed eyes turned out to the ash-heaps, where small grey\
clouds took on fantastic shapes and scurried here and there in the\
faint dawn wind.\
\
\'93I spoke to her,\'94 he muttered, after a long silence. \'93I told her she\
might fool me but she couldn\'92t fool God. I took her to the\
window\'94\'97with an effort he got up and walked to the rear window and\
leaned with his face pressed against it\'97\'93and I said \'91God knows what\
you\'92ve been doing, everything you\'92ve been doing. You may fool me, but\
you can\'92t fool God!\'92\uc0\u8202 \'94\
\
Standing behind him, Michaelis saw with a shock that he was looking at\
the eyes of Doctor T. J. Eckleburg, which had just emerged, pale and\
enormous, from the dissolving night.\
\
\'93God sees everything,\'94 repeated Wilson.\
\
\'93That\'92s an advertisement,\'94 Michaelis assured him. Something made him\
turn away from the window and look back into the room. But Wilson\
stood there a long time, his face close to the window pane, nodding\
into the twilight.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
By six o\'92clock Michaelis was worn out, and grateful for the sound of a\
car stopping outside. It was one of the watchers of the night before\
who had promised to come back, so he cooked breakfast for three, which\
he and the other man ate together. Wilson was quieter now, and\
Michaelis went home to sleep; when he awoke four hours later and\
hurried back to the garage, Wilson was gone.\
\
His movements\'97he was on foot all the time\'97were afterward traced to\
Port Roosevelt and then to Gad\'92s Hill, where he bought a sandwich that\
he didn\'92t eat, and a cup of coffee. He must have been tired and\
walking slowly, for he didn\'92t reach Gad\'92s Hill until noon. Thus far\
there was no difficulty in accounting for his time\'97there were boys who\
had seen a man \'93acting sort of crazy,\'94 and motorists at whom he stared\
oddly from the side of the road. Then for three hours he disappeared\
from view. The police, on the strength of what he said to Michaelis,\
that he \'93had a way of finding out,\'94 supposed that he spent that time\
going from garage to garage thereabout, inquiring for a yellow car. On\
the other hand, no garage man who had seen him ever came forward, and\
perhaps he had an easier, surer way of finding out what he wanted to\
know. By half-past two he was in West Egg, where he asked someone the\
way to Gatsby\'92s house. So by that time he knew Gatsby\'92s name.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
At two o\'92clock Gatsby put on his bathing-suit and left word with the\
butler that if anyone phoned word was to be brought to him at the\
pool. He stopped at the garage for a pneumatic mattress that had\
amused his guests during the summer, and the chauffeur helped him to\
pump it up. Then he gave instructions that the open car wasn\'92t to be\
taken out under any circumstances\'97and this was strange, because the\
front right fender needed repair.\
\
Gatsby shouldered the mattress and started for the pool. Once he\
stopped and shifted it a little, and the chauffeur asked him if he\
needed help, but he shook his head and in a moment disappeared among\
the yellowing trees.\
\
No telephone message arrived, but the butler went without his sleep\
and waited for it until four o\'92clock\'97until long after there was anyone\
to give it to if it came. I have an idea that Gatsby himself didn\'92t\
believe it would come, and perhaps he no longer cared. If that was\
true he must have felt that he had lost the old warm world, paid a\
high price for living too long with a single dream. He must have\
looked up at an unfamiliar sky through frightening leaves and shivered\
as he found what a grotesque thing a rose is and how raw the sunlight\
was upon the scarcely created grass. A new world, material without\
being real, where poor ghosts, breathing dreams like air, drifted\
fortuitously about \'85 like that ashen, fantastic figure gliding toward\
him through the amorphous trees.\
\
The chauffeur\'97he was one of Wolfshiem\'92s prot\'e9g\'e9s\'97heard the\
shots\'97afterwards he could only say that he hadn\'92t thought anything\
much about them. I drove from the station directly to Gatsby\'92s house\
and my rushing anxiously up the front steps was the first thing that\
alarmed anyone. But they knew then, I firmly believe. With scarcely a\
word said, four of us, the chauffeur, butler, gardener, and I hurried\
down to the pool.\
\
There was a faint, barely perceptible movement of the water as the\
fresh flow from one end urged its way toward the drain at the other.\
With little ripples that were hardly the shadows of waves, the laden\
mattress moved irregularly down the pool. A small gust of wind that\
scarcely corrugated the surface was enough to disturb its accidental\
course with its accidental burden. The touch of a cluster of leaves\
revolved it slowly, tracing, like the leg of transit, a thin red\
circle in the water.\
\
It was after we started with Gatsby toward the house that the gardener\
saw Wilson\'92s body a little way off in the grass, and the holocaust was\
complete.\
\
\
                                  IX\
\
After two years I remember the rest of that day, and that night and\
the next day, only as an endless drill of police and photographers and\
newspaper men in and out of Gatsby\'92s front door. A rope stretched\
across the main gate and a policeman by it kept out the curious, but\
little boys soon discovered that they could enter through my yard, and\
there were always a few of them clustered open-mouthed about the\
pool. Someone with a positive manner, perhaps a detective, used the\
expression \'93madman\'94 as he bent over Wilson\'92s body that afternoon, and\
the adventitious authority of his voice set the key for the newspaper\
reports next morning.\
\
Most of those reports were a nightmare\'97grotesque, circumstantial,\
eager, and untrue. When Michaelis\'92s testimony at the inquest brought\
to light Wilson\'92s suspicions of his wife I thought the whole tale\
would shortly be served up in racy pasquinade\'97but Catherine, who might\
have said anything, didn\'92t say a word. She showed a surprising amount\
of character about it too\'97looked at the coroner with determined eyes\
under that corrected brow of hers, and swore that her sister had never\
seen Gatsby, that her sister was completely happy with her husband,\
that her sister had been into no mischief whatever. She convinced\
herself of it, and cried into her handkerchief, as if the very\
suggestion was more than she could endure. So Wilson was reduced to a\
man \'93deranged by grief\'94 in order that the case might remain in its\
simplest form. And it rested there.\
\
But all this part of it seemed remote and unessential. I found myself\
on Gatsby\'92s side, and alone. From the moment I telephoned news of the\
catastrophe to West Egg village, every surmise about him, and every\
practical question, was referred to me. At first I was surprised and\
confused; then, as he lay in his house and didn\'92t move or breathe or\
speak, hour upon hour, it grew upon me that I was responsible, because\
no one else was interested\'97interested, I mean, with that intense\
personal interest to which everyone has some vague right at the end.\
\
I called up Daisy half an hour after we found him, called her\
instinctively and without hesitation. But she and Tom had gone away\
early that afternoon, and taken baggage with them.\
\
\'93Left no address?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Say when they\'92d be back?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Any idea where they are? How I could reach them?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. Can\'92t say.\'94\
\
I wanted to get somebody for him. I wanted to go into the room where\
he lay and reassure him: \'93I\'92ll get somebody for you, Gatsby. Don\'92t\
worry. Just trust me and I\'92ll get somebody for you\'97\'94\
\
Meyer Wolfshiem\'92s name wasn\'92t in the phone book. The butler gave me\
his office address on Broadway, and I called Information, but by the\
time I had the number it was long after five, and no one answered the\
phone.\
\
\'93Will you ring again?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve rung three times.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s very important.\'94\
\
\'93Sorry. I\'92m afraid no one\'92s there.\'94\
\
I went back to the drawing-room and thought for an instant that they\
were chance visitors, all these official people who suddenly filled\
it. But, though they drew back the sheet and looked at Gatsby with\
shocked eyes, his protest continued in my brain:\
\
\'93Look here, old sport, you\'92ve got to get somebody for me. You\'92ve got\
to try hard. I can\'92t go through this alone.\'94\
\
Someone started to ask me questions, but I broke away and going\
upstairs looked hastily through the unlocked parts of his desk\'97he\'92d\
never told me definitely that his parents were dead. But there was\
nothing\'97only the picture of Dan Cody, a token of forgotten violence,\
staring down from the wall.\
\
Next morning I sent the butler to New York with a letter to Wolfshiem,\
which asked for information and urged him to come out on the next\
train. That request seemed superfluous when I wrote it. I was sure\
he\'92d start when he saw the newspapers, just as I was sure there\'92d be a\
wire from Daisy before noon\'97but neither a wire nor Mr. Wolfshiem\
arrived; no one arrived except more police and photographers and\
newspaper men. When the butler brought back Wolfshiem\'92s answer I began\
to have a feeling of defiance, of scornful solidarity between Gatsby\
and me against them all.\
\
 Dear Mr. Carraway. This has been one of the most terrible shocks of\
 my life to me I hardly can believe it that it is true at all. Such a\
 mad act as that man did should make us all think. I cannot come down\
 now as I am tied up in some very important business and cannot get\
 mixed up in this thing now. If there is anything I can do a little\
 later let me know in a letter by Edgar. I hardly know where I am when\
 I hear about a thing like this and am completely knocked down and\
 out.\
\
                               Yours truly\
\
                             Meyer Wolfshiem\
\
and then hasty addenda beneath:\
\
 Let me know about the funeral etc do not know his family at all.\
\
When the phone rang that afternoon and Long Distance said Chicago was\
calling I thought this would be Daisy at last. But the connection came\
through as a man\'92s voice, very thin and far away.\
\
\'93This is Slagle speaking \'85\'94\
\
\'93Yes?\'94 The name was unfamiliar.\
\
\'93Hell of a note, isn\'92t it? Get my wire?\'94\
\
\'93There haven\'92t been any wires.\'94\
\
\'93Young Parke\'92s in trouble,\'94 he said rapidly. \'93They picked him up when\
he handed the bonds over the counter. They got a circular from New\
York giving \'92em the numbers just five minutes before. What d\'92you know\
about that, hey? You never can tell in these hick towns\'97\'94\
\
\'93Hello!\'94 I interrupted breathlessly. \'93Look here\'97this isn\'92t Mr.\
Gatsby. Mr. Gatsby\'92s dead.\'94\
\
There was a long silence on the other end of the wire, followed by an\
exclamation \'85 then a quick squawk as the connection was broken.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
I think it was on the third day that a telegram signed Henry C. Gatz\
arrived from a town in Minnesota. It said only that the sender was\
leaving immediately and to postpone the funeral until he came.\
\
It was Gatsby\'92s father, a solemn old man, very helpless and dismayed,\
bundled up in a long cheap ulster against the warm September day. His\
eyes leaked continuously with excitement, and when I took the bag and\
umbrella from his hands he began to pull so incessantly at his sparse\
grey beard that I had difficulty in getting off his coat. He was on\
the point of collapse, so I took him into the music-room and made him\
sit down while I sent for something to eat. But he wouldn\'92t eat, and\
the glass of milk spilled from his trembling hand.\
\
\'93I saw it in the Chicago newspaper,\'94 he said. \'93It was all in the\
Chicago newspaper. I started right away.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t know how to reach you.\'94\
\
His eyes, seeing nothing, moved ceaselessly about the room.\
\
\'93It was a madman,\'94 he said. \'93He must have been mad.\'94\
\
\'93Wouldn\'92t you like some coffee?\'94 I urged him.\
\
\'93I don\'92t want anything. I\'92m all right now, Mr.\'97\'94\
\
\'93Carraway.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92m all right now. Where have they got Jimmy?\'94\
\
I took him into the drawing-room, where his son lay, and left him\
there. Some little boys had come up on the steps and were looking into\
the hall; when I told them who had arrived, they went reluctantly\
away.\
\
After a little while Mr. Gatz opened the door and came out, his mouth\
ajar, his face flushed slightly, his eyes leaking isolated and\
unpunctual tears. He had reached an age where death no longer has the\
quality of ghastly surprise, and when he looked around him now for the\
first time and saw the height and splendour of the hall and the great\
rooms opening out from it into other rooms, his grief began to be\
mixed with an awed pride. I helped him to a bedroom upstairs; while he\
took off his coat and vest I told him that all arrangements had been\
deferred until he came.\
\
\'93I didn\'92t know what you\'92d want, Mr. Gatsby\'97\'94\
\
\'93Gatz is my name.\'94\
\
\'93\'97Mr. Gatz. I thought you might want to take the body West.\'94\
\
He shook his head.\
\
\'93Jimmy always liked it better down East. He rose up to his position in\
the East. Were you a friend of my boy\'92s, Mr.\'97?\'94\
\
\'93We were close friends.\'94\
\
\'93He had a big future before him, you know. He was only a young man,\
but he had a lot of brain power here.\'94\
\
He touched his head impressively, and I nodded.\
\
\'93If he\'92d of lived, he\'92d of been a great man. A man like James J.\
Hill. He\'92d of helped build up the country.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s true,\'94 I said, uncomfortably.\
\
He fumbled at the embroidered coverlet, trying to take it from the\
bed, and lay down stiffly\'97was instantly asleep.\
\
That night an obviously frightened person called up, and demanded to\
know who I was before he would give his name.\
\
\'93This is Mr. Carraway,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Oh!\'94 He sounded relieved. \'93This is Klipspringer.\'94\
\
I was relieved too, for that seemed to promise another friend at\
Gatsby\'92s grave. I didn\'92t want it to be in the papers and draw a\
sightseeing crowd, so I\'92d been calling up a few people myself. They\
were hard to find.\
\
\'93The funeral\'92s tomorrow,\'94 I said. \'93Three o\'92clock, here at the house.\
I wish you\'92d tell anybody who\'92d be interested.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I will,\'94 he broke out hastily. \'93Of course I\'92m not likely to see\
anybody, but if I do.\'94\
\
His tone made me suspicious.\
\
\'93Of course you\'92ll be there yourself.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92ll certainly try. What I called up about is\'97\'94\
\
\'93Wait a minute,\'94 I interrupted. \'93How about saying you\'92ll come?\'94\
\
\'93Well, the fact is\'97the truth of the matter is that I\'92m staying with\
some people up here in Greenwich, and they rather expect me to be with\
them tomorrow. In fact, there\'92s a sort of picnic or something. Of\
course I\'92ll do my best to get away.\'94\
\
I ejaculated an unrestrained \'93Huh!\'94 and he must have heard me, for he\
went on nervously:\
\
\'93What I called up about was a pair of shoes I left there. I wonder if\
it\'92d be too much trouble to have the butler send them on. You see,\
they\'92re tennis shoes, and I\'92m sort of helpless without them. My\
address is care of B. F.\'97\'94\
\
I didn\'92t hear the rest of the name, because I hung up the receiver.\
\
After that I felt a certain shame for Gatsby\'97one gentleman to whom I\
telephoned implied that he had got what he deserved. However, that was\
my fault, for he was one of those who used to sneer most bitterly at\
Gatsby on the courage of Gatsby\'92s liquor, and I should have known\
better than to call him.\
\
The morning of the funeral I went up to New York to see Meyer\
Wolfshiem; I couldn\'92t seem to reach him any other way. The door that I\
pushed open, on the advice of an elevator boy, was marked \'93The\
Swastika Holding Company,\'94 and at first there didn\'92t seem to be anyone\
inside. But when I\'92d shouted \'93hello\'94 several times in vain, an\
argument broke out behind a partition, and presently a lovely Jewess\
appeared at an interior door and scrutinized me with black hostile\
eyes.\
\
\'93Nobody\'92s in,\'94 she said. \'93Mr. Wolfshiem\'92s gone to Chicago.\'94\
\
The first part of this was obviously untrue, for someone had begun to\
whistle \'93The Rosary,\'94 tunelessly, inside.\
\
\'93Please say that Mr. Carraway wants to see him.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t get him back from Chicago, can I?\'94\
\
At this moment a voice, unmistakably Wolfshiem\'92s, called \'93Stella!\'94\
from the other side of the door.\
\
\'93Leave your name on the desk,\'94 she said quickly. \'93I\'92ll give it to him\
when he gets back.\'94\
\
\'93But I know he\'92s there.\'94\
\
She took a step toward me and began to slide her hands indignantly up\
and down her hips.\
\
\'93You young men think you can force your way in here any time,\'94 she\
scolded. \'93We\'92re getting sickantired of it. When I say he\'92s in Chicago,\
he\'92s in Chicago.\'94\
\
I mentioned Gatsby.\
\
\'93Oh-h!\'94 She looked at me over again. \'93Will you just\'97What was your\
name?\'94\
\
She vanished. In a moment Meyer Wolfshiem stood solemnly in the\
doorway, holding out both hands. He drew me into his office, remarking\
in a reverent voice that it was a sad time for all of us, and offered\
me a cigar.\
\
\'93My memory goes back to when first I met him,\'94 he said. \'93A young major\
just out of the army and covered over with medals he got in the war.\
He was so hard up he had to keep on wearing his uniform because he\
couldn\'92t buy some regular clothes. First time I saw him was when he\
came into Winebrenner\'92s poolroom at Forty-third Street and asked for a\
job. He hadn\'92t eat anything for a couple of days. \'91Come on have some\
lunch with me,\'92 I said. He ate more than four dollars\'92 worth of food\
in half an hour.\'94\
\
\'93Did you start him in business?\'94 I inquired.\
\
\'93Start him! I made him.\'94\
\
\'93Oh.\'94\
\
\'93I raised him up out of nothing, right out of the gutter. I saw right\
away he was a fine-appearing, gentlemanly young man, and when he told\
me he was at Oggsford I knew I could use him good. I got him to join\
the American Legion and he used to stand high there. Right off he did\
some work for a client of mine up to Albany. We were so thick like\
that in everything\'94\'97he held up two bulbous fingers\'97\'93always together.\'94\
\
I wondered if this partnership had included the World\'92s Series\
transaction in 1919.\
\
\'93Now he\'92s dead,\'94 I said after a moment. \'93You were his closest friend,\
so I know you\'92ll want to come to his funeral this afternoon.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to come.\'94\
\
\'93Well, come then.\'94\
\
The hair in his nostrils quivered slightly, and as he shook his head\
his eyes filled with tears.\
\
\'93I can\'92t do it\'97I can\'92t get mixed up in it,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93There\'92s nothing to get mixed up in. It\'92s all over now.\'94\
\
\'93When a man gets killed I never like to get mixed up in it in any\
way. I keep out. When I was a young man it was different\'97if a friend\
of mine died, no matter how, I stuck with them to the end. You may\
think that\'92s sentimental, but I mean it\'97to the bitter end.\'94\
\
I saw that for some reason of his own he was determined not to come,\
so I stood up.\
\
\'93Are you a college man?\'94 he inquired suddenly.\
\
For a moment I thought he was going to suggest a \'93gonnegtion,\'94 but he\
only nodded and shook my hand.\
\
\'93Let us learn to show our friendship for a man when he is alive and\
not after he is dead,\'94 he suggested. \'93After that my own rule is to let\
everything alone.\'94\
\
When I left his office the sky had turned dark and I got back to West\
Egg in a drizzle. After changing my clothes I went next door and found\
Mr. Gatz walking up and down excitedly in the hall. His pride in his\
son and in his son\'92s possessions was continually increasing and now he\
had something to show me.\
\
\'93Jimmy sent me this picture.\'94 He took out his wallet with trembling\
fingers. \'93Look there.\'94\
\
It was a photograph of the house, cracked in the corners and dirty\
with many hands. He pointed out every detail to me eagerly. \'93Look\
there!\'94 and then sought admiration from my eyes. He had shown it so\
often that I think it was more real to him now than the house itself.\
\
\'93Jimmy sent it to me. I think it\'92s a very pretty picture. It shows up\
well.\'94\
\
\'93Very well. Had you seen him lately?\'94\
\
\'93He come out to see me two years ago and bought me the house I live in\
now. Of course we was broke up when he run off from home, but I see\
now there was a reason for it. He knew he had a big future in front of\
him. And ever since he made a success he was very generous with me.\'94\
\
He seemed reluctant to put away the picture, held it for another\
minute, lingeringly, before my eyes. Then he returned the wallet and\
pulled from his pocket a ragged old copy of a book called Hopalong\
Cassidy.\
\
\'93Look here, this is a book he had when he was a boy. It just shows\
you.\'94\
\
He opened it at the back cover and turned it around for me to see. On\
the last flyleaf was printed the word schedule, and the date September\
12, 1906. And underneath:\
\
    Rise from bed                                  6:00      a.m.\
    Dumbell exercise and wall-scaling              6:15-6:30 \'94\
    Study electricity, etc.                        7:15-8:15 \'94\
    Work                                           8:30-4:30 p.m.\
    Baseball and sports                            4:30-5:00 \'94\
    Practise elocution, poise and how to attain it 5:00-6:00 \'94\
    Study needed inventions                        7:00-9:00 \'94\
\
               General Resolves\
\
  * No wasting time at Shafters or [a name, indecipherable]\
\
  * No more smokeing or chewing.\
\
  * Bath every other day\
\
  * Read one improving book or magazine per week\
\
  * Save $5.00 [crossed out] $3.00 per week\
\
  * Be better to parents\
\
\'93I came across this book by accident,\'94 said the old man. \'93It just\
shows you, don\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93It just shows you.\'94\
\
\'93Jimmy was bound to get ahead. He always had some resolves like this\
or something. Do you notice what he\'92s got about improving his mind? He\
was always great for that. He told me I et like a hog once, and I beat\
him for it.\'94\
\
He was reluctant to close the book, reading each item aloud and then\
looking eagerly at me. I think he rather expected me to copy down the\
list for my own use.\
\
A little before three the Lutheran minister arrived from Flushing, and\
I began to look involuntarily out the windows for other cars. So did\
Gatsby\'92s father. And as the time passed and the servants came in and\
stood waiting in the hall, his eyes began to blink anxiously, and he\
spoke of the rain in a worried, uncertain way. The minister glanced\
several times at his watch, so I took him aside and asked him to wait\
for half an hour. But it wasn\'92t any use. Nobody came.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
About five o\'92clock our procession of three cars reached the cemetery\
and stopped in a thick drizzle beside the gate\'97first a motor hearse,\
horribly black and wet, then Mr. Gatz and the minister and me in the\
limousine, and a little later four or five servants and the postman\
from West Egg, in Gatsby\'92s station wagon, all wet to the skin. As we\
started through the gate into the cemetery I heard a car stop and then\
the sound of someone splashing after us over the soggy ground. I\
looked around. It was the man with owl-eyed glasses whom I had found\
marvelling over Gatsby\'92s books in the library one night three months\
before.\
\
I\'92d never seen him since then. I don\'92t know how he knew about the\
funeral, or even his name. The rain poured down his thick glasses, and\
he took them off and wiped them to see the protecting canvas unrolled\
from Gatsby\'92s grave.\
\
I tried to think about Gatsby then for a moment, but he was already\
too far away, and I could only remember, without resentment, that\
Daisy hadn\'92t sent a message or a flower. Dimly I heard someone murmur\
\'93Blessed are the dead that the rain falls on,\'94 and then the owl-eyed\
man said \'93Amen to that,\'94 in a brave voice.\
\
We straggled down quickly through the rain to the cars. Owl-eyes spoke\
to me by the gate.\
\
\'93I couldn\'92t get to the house,\'94 he remarked.\
\
\'93Neither could anybody else.\'94\
\
\'93Go on!\'94 He started. \'93Why, my God! they used to go there by the\
hundreds.\'94\
\
He took off his glasses and wiped them again, outside and in.\
\
\'93The poor son-of-a-bitch,\'94 he said.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
One of my most vivid memories is of coming back West from prep school\
and later from college at Christmas time. Those who went farther than\
Chicago would gather in the old dim Union Station at six o\'92clock of a\
December evening, with a few Chicago friends, already caught up into\
their own holiday gaieties, to bid them a hasty goodbye. I remember\
the fur coats of the girls returning from Miss This-or-That\'92s and the\
chatter of frozen breath and the hands waving overhead as we caught\
sight of old acquaintances, and the matchings of invitations: \'93Are you\
going to the Ordways\'92? the Herseys\'92? the Schultzes\'92?\'94 and the long\
green tickets clasped tight in our gloved hands. And last the murky\
yellow cars of the Chicago, Milwaukee and St. Paul railroad looking\
cheerful as Christmas itself on the tracks beside the gate.\
\
When we pulled out into the winter night and the real snow, our snow,\
began to stretch out beside us and twinkle against the windows, and\
the dim lights of small Wisconsin stations moved by, a sharp wild\
brace came suddenly into the air. We drew in deep breaths of it as we\
walked back from dinner through the cold vestibules, unutterably aware\
of our identity with this country for one strange hour, before we\
melted indistinguishably into it again.\
\
That\'92s my Middle West\'97not the wheat or the prairies or the lost Swede\
towns, but the thrilling returning trains of my youth, and the street\
lamps and sleigh bells in the frosty dark and the shadows of holly\
wreaths thrown by lighted windows on the snow. I am part of that, a\
little solemn with the feel of those long winters, a little complacent\
from growing up in the Carraway house in a city where dwellings are\
still called through decades by a family\'92s name. I see now that this\
has been a story of the West, after all\'97Tom and Gatsby, Daisy and\
Jordan and I, were all Westerners, and perhaps we possessed some\
deficiency in common which made us subtly unadaptable to Eastern life.\
\
Even when the East excited me most, even when I was most keenly aware\
of its superiority to the bored, sprawling, swollen towns beyond the\
Ohio, with their interminable inquisitions which spared only the\
children and the very old\'97even then it had always for me a quality of\
distortion. West Egg, especially, still figures in my more fantastic\
dreams. I see it as a night scene by El Greco: a hundred houses, at\
once conventional and grotesque, crouching under a sullen, overhanging\
sky and a lustreless moon. In the foreground four solemn men in dress\
suits are walking along the sidewalk with a stretcher on which lies a\
drunken woman in a white evening dress. Her hand, which dangles over\
the side, sparkles cold with jewels. Gravely the men turn in at a\
house\'97the wrong house. But no one knows the woman\'92s name, and no one\
cares.\
\
After Gatsby\'92s death the East was haunted for me like that, distorted\
beyond my eyes\'92 power of correction. So when the blue smoke of brittle\
leaves was in the air and the wind blew the wet laundry stiff on the\
line I decided to come back home.\
\
There was one thing to be done before I left, an awkward, unpleasant\
thing that perhaps had better have been let alone. But I wanted to\
leave things in order and not just trust that obliging and indifferent\
sea to sweep my refuse away. I saw Jordan Baker and talked over and\
around what had happened to us together, and what had happened\
afterward to me, and she lay perfectly still, listening, in a big\
chair.\
\
She was dressed to play golf, and I remember thinking she looked like\
a good illustration, her chin raised a little jauntily, her hair the\
colour of an autumn leaf, her face the same brown tint as the\
fingerless glove on her knee. When I had finished she told me without\
comment that she was engaged to another man. I doubted that, though\
there were several she could have married at a nod of her head, but I\
pretended to be surprised. For just a minute I wondered if I wasn\'92t\
making a mistake, then I thought it all over again quickly and got up\
to say goodbye.\
\
\'93Nevertheless you did throw me over,\'94 said Jordan suddenly. \'93You threw\
me over on the telephone. I don\'92t give a damn about you now, but it\
was a new experience for me, and I felt a little dizzy for a while.\'94\
\
We shook hands.\
\
\'93Oh, and do you remember\'94\'97she added\'97\'93a conversation we had once about\
driving a car?\'94\
\
\'93Why\'97not exactly.\'94\
\
\'93You said a bad driver was only safe until she met another bad driver?\
Well, I met another bad driver, didn\'92t I? I mean it was careless of me\
to make such a wrong guess. I thought you were rather an honest,\
straightforward person. I thought it was your secret pride.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m thirty,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m five years too old to lie to myself and\
call it honour.\'94\
\
She didn\'92t answer. Angry, and half in love with her, and tremendously\
sorry, I turned away.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
One afternoon late in October I saw Tom Buchanan. He was walking ahead\
of me along Fifth Avenue in his alert, aggressive way, his hands out a\
little from his body as if to fight off interference, his head moving\
sharply here and there, adapting itself to his restless eyes. Just as\
I slowed up to avoid overtaking him he stopped and began frowning into\
the windows of a jewellery store. Suddenly he saw me and walked back,\
holding out his hand.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, Nick? Do you object to shaking hands with me?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. You know what I think of you.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re crazy, Nick,\'94 he said quickly. \'93Crazy as hell. I don\'92t know\
what\'92s the matter with you.\'94\
\
\'93Tom,\'94 I inquired, \'93what did you say to Wilson that afternoon?\'94\
\
He stared at me without a word, and I knew I had guessed right about\
those missing hours. I started to turn away, but he took a step after\
me and grabbed my arm.\
\
\'93I told him the truth,\'94 he said. \'93He came to the door while we were\
getting ready to leave, and when I sent down word that we weren\'92t in\
he tried to force his way upstairs. He was crazy enough to kill me if\
I hadn\'92t told him who owned the car. His hand was on a revolver in his\
pocket every minute he was in the house\'97\'94 He broke off defiantly.\
\'93What if I did tell him? That fellow had it coming to him. He threw\
dust into your eyes just like he did in Daisy\'92s, but he was a tough\
one. He ran over Myrtle like you\'92d run over a dog and never even\
stopped his car.\'94\
\
There was nothing I could say, except the one unutterable fact that it\
wasn\'92t true.\
\
\'93And if you think I didn\'92t have my share of suffering\'97look here, when\
I went to give up that flat and saw that damn box of dog biscuits\
sitting there on the sideboard, I sat down and cried like a baby. By\
God it was awful\'97\'94\
\
I couldn\'92t forgive him or like him, but I saw that what he had done\
was, to him, entirely justified. It was all very careless and\
confused. They were careless people, Tom and Daisy\'97they smashed up\
things and creatures and then retreated back into their money or their\
vast carelessness, or whatever it was that kept them together, and let\
other people clean up the mess they had made \'85\
\
I shook hands with him; it seemed silly not to, for I felt suddenly as\
though I were talking to a child. Then he went into the jewellery\
store to buy a pearl necklace\'97or perhaps only a pair of cuff\
buttons\'97rid of my provincial squeamishness forever.\
\
------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
Gatsby\'92s house was still empty when I left\'97the grass on his lawn had\
grown as long as mine. One of the taxi drivers in the village never\
took a fare past the entrance gate without stopping for a minute and\
pointing inside; perhaps it was he who drove Daisy and Gatsby over to\
East Egg the night of the accident, and perhaps he had made a story\
about it all his own. I didn\'92t want to hear it and I avoided him when\
I got off the train.\
\
I spent my Saturday nights in New York because those gleaming,\
dazzling parties of his were with me so vividly that I could still\
hear the music and the laughter, faint and incessant, from his garden,\
and the cars going up and down his drive. One night I did hear a\
material car there, and saw its lights stop at his front steps. But I\
didn\'92t investigate. Probably it was some final guest who had been away\
at the ends of the earth and didn\'92t know that the party was over.\
\
On the last night, with my trunk packed and my car sold to the grocer,\
I went over and looked at that huge incoherent failure of a house once\
more. On the white steps an obscene word, scrawled by some boy with a\
piece of brick, stood out clearly in the moonlight, and I erased it,\
drawing my shoe raspingly along the stone. Then I wandered down to the\
beach and sprawled out on the sand.\
\
Most of the big shore places were closed now and there were hardly any\
lights except the shadowy, moving glow of a ferryboat across the\
Sound. And as the moon rose higher the inessential houses began to\
melt away until gradually I became aware of the old island here that\
flowered once for Dutch sailors\'92 eyes\'97a fresh, green breast of the new\
world. Its vanished trees, the trees that had made way for Gatsby\'92s\
house, had once pandered in whispers to the last and greatest of all\
human dreams; for a transitory enchanted moment man must have held his\
breath in the presence of this continent, compelled into an aesthetic\
contemplation he neither understood nor desired, face to face for the\
last time in history with something commensurate to his capacity for\
wonder.\
\
And as I sat there brooding on the old, unknown world, I thought of\
Gatsby\'92s wonder when he first picked out the green light at the end of\
Daisy\'92s dock. He had come a long way to this blue lawn, and his dream\
must have seemed so close that he could hardly fail to grasp it. He\
did not know that it was already behind him, somewhere back in that\
vast obscurity beyond the city, where the dark fields of the republic\
rolled on under the night.\
\
Gatsby believed in the green light, the orgiastic future that year by\
year recedes before us. It eluded us then, but that\'92s no\
matter\'97tomorrow we will run faster, stretch out our arms further \'85 And\
one fine morning\'97\
\
So we beat on, boats against the current, borne back ceaselessly into\
the past.\
}