{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2865
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28260\viewh15600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
                           A FAREWELL TO ARMS\
\
                                   By\
                            ERNEST HEMINGWAY\
\
                                NEW YORK\
                        CHARLES SCRIBNER\'92S SONS\
                                  1929\
\
\
\
\
                          COPYRIGHT, 1929, BY\
                        CHARLES SCRIBNER\'92S SONS\
\
                Printed in the United States of America\
\
                             [Illustration]\
\
\
\
\
                                   TO\
                             G. A. PFEIFFER\
\
\
\
\
                                 BOOK 1\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER I\
\
In the late summer of that year we lived in a house in a village that\
looked across the river and the plain to the mountains. In the bed of\
the river there were pebbles and boulders, dry and white in the sun, and\
the water was clear and swiftly moving and blue in the channels. Troops\
went by the house and down the road and the dust they raised powdered\
the leaves of the trees. The trunks of the trees too were dusty and the\
leaves fell early that year and we saw the troops marching along the\
road and the dust rising and leaves, stirred by the breeze, falling and\
the soldiers marching and afterward the road bare and white except for\
the leaves.\
\
The plain was rich with crops; there were many orchards of fruit trees\
and beyond the plain the mountains were brown and bare. There was\
fighting in the mountains and at night we could see the flashes from the\
artillery. In the dark it was like summer lightning, but the nights were\
cool and there was not the feeling of a storm coming.\
\
Sometimes in the dark we heard the troops marching under the window and\
guns going past pulled by motor-tractors. There was much traffic at\
night and many mules on the roads with boxes of ammunition on each side\
of their pack-saddles and gray motor-trucks that carried men, and other\
trucks with loads covered with canvas that moved slower in the traffic.\
There were big guns too that passed in the day drawn by tractors, the\
long barrels of the guns covered with green branches and green leafy\
branches and vines laid over the tractors. To the north we could look\
across a valley and see a forest of chestnut trees and behind it another\
mountain on this side of the river. There was fighting for that mountain\
too, but it was not successful, and in the fall when the rains came the\
leaves all fell from the chestnut trees and the branches were bare and\
the trunks black with rain. The vineyards were thin and bare-branched\
too and all the country wet and brown and dead with the autumn. There\
were mists over the river and clouds on the mountain and the trucks\
splashed mud on the road and the troops were muddy and wet in their\
capes; their rifles were wet and under their capes the two leather\
cartridge-boxes on the front of the belts, gray leather boxes heavy with\
the packs of clips of thin, long 6.5 mm. cartridges, bulged forward\
under the capes so that the men, passing on the road, marched as though\
they were six months gone with child.\
\
There were small gray motor-cars that passed going very fast; usually\
there was an officer on the seat with the driver and more officers in\
the back seat. They splashed more mud than the camions even and if one\
of the officers in the back was very small and sitting between two\
generals, he himself so small that you could not see his face but only\
the top of his cap and his narrow back, and if the car went especially\
fast it was probably the King. He lived in Udine and came out in this\
way nearly every day to see how things were going, and things went very\
badly.\
\
At the start of the winter came the permanent rain and with the rain\
came the cholera. But it was checked and in the end only seven thousand\
died of it in the army.\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER II\
\
The next year there were many victories. The mountain that was beyond\
the valley and the hillside where the chestnut forest grew was captured\
and there were victories beyond the plain on the plateau to the south\
and we crossed the river in August and lived in a house in Gorizia that\
had a fountain and many thick shady trees in a walled garden and a\
wistaria vine purple on the side of the house. Now the fighting was in\
the next mountains beyond and was not a mile away. The town was very\
nice and our house was very fine. The river ran behind us and the town\
had been captured very handsomely but the mountains beyond it could not\
be taken and I was very glad the Austrians seemed to want to come back\
to the town some time, if the war should end, because they did not\
bombard it to destroy it but only a little in a military way. People\
lived on in it and there were hospitals and caf\'e9s and artillery up side\
streets and two bawdy houses, one for troops and one for officers, and\
with the end of the summer, the cool nights, the fighting in the\
mountains beyond the town, the shell-marked iron of the railway bridge,\
the smashed tunnel by the river where the fighting had been, the trees\
around the square and the long avenue of trees that led to the square;\
these with there being girls in the town, the King passing in his motor\
car, sometimes now seeing his face and little long necked body and gray\
beard like a goat\'92s chin tuft; all these with the sudden interiors of\
houses that had lost a wall through shelling, with plaster and rubble in\
their gardens and sometimes in the street, and the whole thing going\
well on the Carso made the fall very different from the last fall when\
we had been in the country. The war was changed too.\
\
The forest of oak trees on the mountain beyond the town was gone. The\
forest had been green in the summer when we had come into the town but\
now there were the stumps and the broken trunks and the ground torn up,\
and one day at the end of the fall when I was out where the oak forest\
had been I saw a cloud coming over the mountain. It came very fast and\
the sun went a dull yellow and then everything was gray and the sky was\
covered and the cloud came on down the mountain and suddenly we were in\
it and it was snow. The snow slanted across the wind, the bare ground\
was covered, the stumps of trees projected, there was snow on the guns\
and there were paths in the snow going back to the latrines behind\
trenches.\
\
Later, below in the town, I watched the snow falling, looking out of the\
window of the bawdy house, the house for officers, where I sat with a\
friend and two glasses drinking a bottle of Asti, and, looking out at\
the snow falling slowly and heavily, we knew it was all over for that\
year. Up the river the mountains had not been taken; none of the\
mountains beyond the river had been taken. That was all left for next\
year. My friend saw the priest from our mess going by in the street,\
walking carefully in the slush, and pounded on the window to attract his\
attention. The priest looked up. He saw us and smiled. My friend\
motioned for him to come in. The priest shook his head and went on. That\
night in the mess after the spaghetti course, which every one ate very\
quickly and seriously, lifting the spaghetti on the fork until the loose\
strands hung clear then lowering it into the mouth, or else using a\
continuous lift and sucking into the mouth, helping ourselves to wine\
from the grass-covered gallon flask; it swung in a metal cradle and you\
pulled the neck of the flask down with the forefinger and the wine,\
clear red, tannic and lovely, poured out into the glass held with the\
same hand; after this course, the captain commenced picking on the\
priest.\
\
The priest was young and blushed easily and wore a uniform like the rest\
of us but with a cross in dark red velvet above the left breast pocket\
of his gray tunic. The captain spoke pidgin Italian for my doubtful\
benefit, in order that I might understand perfectly, that nothing should\
be lost.\
\
\'93Priest to-day with girls,\'94 the captain said looking at the priest and\
at me. The priest smiled and blushed and shook his head. This captain\
baited him often.\
\
\'93Not true?\'94 asked the captain. \'93To-day I see priest with girls.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said the priest. The other officers were amused at the baiting.\
\
\'93Priest not with girls,\'94 went on the captain. \'93Priest never with girls,\'94\
he explained to me. He took my glass and filled it, looking at my eyes\
all the time, but not losing sight of the priest.\
\
\'93Priest every night five against one.\'94 Every one at the table laughed.\
\'93You understand? Priest every night five against one.\'94 He made a gesture\
and laughed loudly. The priest accepted it as a joke.\
\
\'93The Pope wants the Austrians to win the war,\'94 the major said. \'93He loves\
Franz Joseph. That\'92s where the money comes from. I am an atheist.\'94\
\
\'93Did you ever read the \'91Black Pig\'92?\'94 asked the lieutenant. \'93I will get\
you a copy. It was that which shook my faith.\'94\
\
\'93It is a filthy and vile book,\'94 said the priest. \'93You do not really like\
it.\'94\
\
\'93It is very valuable,\'94 said the lieutenant. \'93It tells you about those\
priests. You will like it,\'94 he said to me. I smiled at the priest and he\
smiled back across the candle-light. \'93Don\'92t you read it,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93I will get it for you,\'94 said the lieutenant.\
\
\'93All thinking men are atheists,\'94 the major said. \'93I do not believe in\
the Free Masons however.\'94\
\
\'93I believe in the Free Masons,\'94 the lieutenant said. \'93It is a noble\
organization.\'94 Some one came in and as the door opened I could see the\
snow falling.\
\
\'93There will be no more offensive now that the snow has come,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Certainly not,\'94 said the major. \'93You should go on leave. You should go\
to Rome, Naples, Sicily\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93He should visit Amalfi,\'94 said the lieutenant \'93I will write you cards to\
my family in Amalfi. They will love you like a son.\'94\
\
\'93He should go to Palermo.\'94\
\
\'93He ought to go to Capri.\'94\
\
\'93I would like you to see Abruzzi and visit my family at Capracotta,\'94\
said the priest.\
\
\'93Listen to him talk about the Abruzzi. There\'92s more snow there than\
here. He doesn\'92t want to see peasants. Let him go to centres of culture\
and civilization.\'94\
\
\'93He should have fine girls. I will give you the addresses of places in\
Naples. Beautiful young girls\'97accompanied by their mothers. Ha! Ha!\
Ha!\'94 The captain spread his hand open, the thumb up and fingers\
outspread as when you make shadow pictures. There was a shadow from his\
hand on the wall. He spoke again in pidgin Italian. \'93You go away like\
this,\'94 he pointed to the thumb, \'93and come back like this,\'94 he touched\
the little finger. Every one laughed.\
\
\'93Look,\'94 said the captain. He spread the hand again. Again the\
candle-light made its shadows on the wall. He started with the upright\
thumb and named in their order the thumb and four fingers, \'93soto-tenente\
(the thumb), tenente (first finger), capitano (next finger), maggiore\
(next to the little finger), and tenente-colonello (the little finger).\
You go away soto-tenente! You come back soto-colonello!\'94 They all\
laughed. The captain was having a great success with finger games. He\
looked at the priest and shouted, \'93Every night priest five against one!\'94\
They all laughed again.\
\
\'93You must go on leave at once,\'94 the major said.\
\
\'93I would like to go with you and show you things,\'94 the lieutenant said.\
\
\'93When you come back bring a phonograph.\'94\
\
\'93Bring good opera disks.\'94\
\
\'93Bring Caruso.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t bring Caruso. He bellows.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you wish you could bellow like him?\'94\
\
\'93He bellows. I say he bellows!\'94\
\
\'93I would like you to go to Abruzzi,\'94 the priest said. The others were\
shouting. \'93There is good hunting. You would like the people and though\
it is cold it is clear and dry. You could stay with my family. My father\
is a famous hunter.\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 said the captain. \'93We go whorehouse before it shuts.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night,\'94 I said to the priest.\
\
\'93Good-night,\'94 he said.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER III\
\
When I came back to the front we still lived in that town. There were\
many more guns in the country around and the spring had come. The fields\
were green and there were small green shoots on the vines, the trees\
along the road had small leaves and a breeze came from the sea. I saw\
the town with the hill and the old castle above it in a cup in the hills\
with the mountains beyond, brown mountains with a little green on their\
slopes. In the town there were more guns, there were some new hospitals,\
you met British men and sometimes women, on the street, and a few more\
houses had been hit by shell fire. It was warm and like the spring and I\
walked down the alleyway of trees, warmed from the sun on the wall, and\
found we still lived in the same house and that it all looked the same\
as when I had left it. The door was open, there was a soldier sitting on\
a bench outside in the sun, an ambulance was waiting by the side door\
and inside the door, as I went in, there was the smell of marble floors\
and hospital. It was all as I had left it except that now it was spring.\
I looked in the door of the big room and saw the major sitting at his\
desk, the window open and the sunlight coming into the room. He did not\
see me and I did not know whether to go in and report or go upstairs\
first and clean up. I decided to go on upstairs.\
\
The room I shared with the lieutenant Rinaldi looked out on the\
courtyard. The window was open, my bed was made up with blankets and my\
things hung on the wall, the gas mask in an oblong tin can, the steel\
helmet on the same peg. At the foot of the bed was my flat trunk, and my\
winter boots, the leather shiny with oil, were on the trunk. My Austrian\
sniper\'92s rifle with its blued octagon barrel and the lovely dark walnut,\
cheek-fitted, _schutzen_ stock, hung over the two beds. The telescope\
that fitted it was, I remembered, locked in the trunk. The lieutenant,\
Rinaldi, lay asleep on the other bed. He woke when he heard me in the\
room and sat up.\
\
\'93Ciaou!\'94 he said. \'93What kind of time did you have?\'94\
\
\'93Magnificent.\'94\
\
We shook hands and he put his arm around my neck and kissed me.\
\
\'93Oughf,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You\'92re dirty,\'94 he said. \'93You ought to wash. Where did you go and what\
did you do? Tell me everything at once.\'94\
\
\'93I went everywhere. Milan, Florence, Rome, Naples, Villa San Giovanni,\
Messina, Taormina\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93You talk like a time-table. Did you have any beautiful adventures?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Where?\'94\
\
\'93Milano, Firenze, Roma, Napoli\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s enough. Tell me really what was the best.\'94\
\
\'93In Milano.\'94\
\
\'93That was because it was first. Where did you meet her? In the Cova?\
Where did you go? How did you feel? Tell me everything at once. Did you\
stay all night?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s nothing. Here now we have beautiful girls. New girls never been\
to the front before.\'94\
\
\'93Wonderful.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t believe me? We will go now this afternoon and see. And in the\
town we have beautiful English girls. I am now in love with Miss\
Barkley. I will take you to call. I will probably marry Miss Barkley.\'94\
\
\'93I have to get washed and report. Doesn\'92t anybody work now?\'94\
\
\'93Since you are gone we have nothing but frostbites, chilblains,\
jaundice, gonorrhea, self-inflicted wounds, pneumonia and hard and soft\
chancres. Every week some one gets wounded by rock fragments. There are\
a few real wounded. Next week the war starts again. Perhaps it starts\
again. They say so. Do you think I would do right to marry Miss\
Barkley\'97after the war of course?\'94\
\
\'93Absolutely,\'94 I said and poured the basin full of water.\
\
\'93To-night you will tell me everything,\'94 said Rinaldi. \'93Now I must go\
back to sleep to be fresh and beautiful for Miss Barkley.\'94\
\
I took off my tunic and shirt and washed in the cold water in the basin.\
While I rubbed myself with a towel I looked around the room and out the\
window and at Rinaldi lying with his eyes closed on the bed. He was\
good-looking, was my age, and he came from Amalfi. He loved being a\
surgeon and we were great friends. While I was looking at him he opened\
his eyes.\
\
\'93Have you any money?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Loan me fifty lire.\'94\
\
I dried my hands and took out my pocket-book from the inside of my tunic\
hanging on the wall. Rinaldi took the note, folded it without rising\
from the bed and slid it in his breeches pocket. He smiled, \'93I must make\
on Miss Barkley the impression of a man of sufficient wealth. You are my\
great and good friend and financial protector.\'94\
\
\'93Go to hell,\'94 I said.\
\
That night at the mess I sat next to the priest and he was disappointed\
and suddenly hurt that I had not gone to the Abruzzi. He had written to\
his father that I was coming and they had made preparations. I myself\
felt as badly as he did and could not understand why I had not gone. It\
was what I had wanted to do and I tried to explain how one thing had led\
to another and finally he saw it and understood that I had really wanted\
to go and it was almost all right. I had drunk much wine and afterward\
coffee and Strega and I explained, winefully, how we did not do the\
things we wanted to do; we never did such things.\
\
We two were talking while the others argued. I had wanted to go to\
Abruzzi. I had gone to no place where the roads were frozen and hard as\
iron, where it was clear cold and dry and the snow was dry and powdery\
and hare-tracks in the snow and the peasants took off their hats and\
called you Lord and there was good hunting. I had gone to no such place\
but to the smoke of caf\'e9s and nights when the room whirled and you\
needed to look at the wall to make it stop, nights in bed, drunk, when\
you knew that that was all there was, and the strange excitement of\
waking and not knowing who it was with you, and the world all unreal in\
the dark and so exciting that you must resume again unknowing and not\
caring in the night, sure that this was all and all and all and not\
caring. Suddenly to care very much and to sleep to wake with it\
sometimes morning and all that had been there gone and everything sharp\
and hard and clear and sometimes a dispute about the cost. Sometimes\
still pleasant and fond and warm and breakfast and lunch. Sometimes all\
niceness gone and glad to get out on the street but always another day\
starting and then another night. I tried to tell about the night and the\
difference between the night and the day and how the night was better\
unless the day was very clean and cold and I could not tell it; as I\
cannot tell it now. But if you have had it you know. He had not had it\
but he understood that I had really wanted to go to the Abruzzi but had\
not gone and we were still friends, with many tastes alike, but with the\
difference between us. He had always known what I did not know and what,\
when I learned it, I was always able to forget. But I did not know that\
then, although I learned it later. In the meantime we were all at the\
mess, the meal was finished, and the argument went on. We two stopped\
talking and the captain shouted, \'93Priest not happy. Priest not happy\
without girls.\'94\
\
\'93I am happy,\'94 said the priest.\
\
\'93Priest not happy. Priest wants Austrians to win the war,\'94 the captain\
said. The others listened. The priest shook his head.\
\
\'93No,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Priest wants us never to attack. Don\'92t you want us never to attack?\'94\
\
\'93No. If there is a war I suppose we must attack.\'94\
\
\'93Must attack. Shall attack!\'94\
\
The priest nodded.\
\
\'93Leave him alone,\'94 the major said. \'93He\'92s all right.\'94\
\
\'93He can\'92t do anything about it anyway,\'94 the captain said. We all got up\
and left the table.\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER IV\
\
The battery in the next garden woke me in the morning and I saw the sun\
coming through the window and got out of the bed. I went to the window\
and looked out. The gravel paths were moist and the grass was wet with\
dew. The battery fired twice and the air came each time like a blow and\
shook the window and made the front of my pajamas flap. I could not see\
the guns but they were evidently firing directly over us. It was a\
nuisance to have them there but it was a comfort that they were no\
bigger. As I looked out at the garden I heard a motor truck starting on\
the road. I dressed, went downstairs, had some coffee in the kitchen and\
went out to the garage.\
\
Ten cars were lined up side by side under the long shed. They were\
top-heavy, blunt-nosed ambulances, painted gray and built like\
moving-vans. The mechanics were working on one out in the yard. Three\
others were up in the mountains at dressing stations.\
\
\'93Do they ever shell that battery?\'94 I asked one of the mechanics.\
\
\'93No, Signor Tenente. It is protected by the little hill.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s everything?\'94\
\
\'93Not so bad. This machine is no good but the others march.\'94 He stopped\
working and smiled. \'93Were you on permission?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
He wiped his hands on his jumper and grinned. \'93You have a good time?\'94\
The others all grinned too.\
\
\'93Fine,\'94 I said. \'93What\'92s the matter with this machine?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s no good. One thing after another.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter now?\'94\
\
\'93New rings.\'94\
\
I left them working, the car looking disgraced and empty with the engine\
open and parts spread on the work bench, and went in under the shed and\
looked at each of the cars. They were moderately clean, a few freshly\
washed, the others dusty. I looked at the tires carefully, looking for\
cuts or stone bruises. Everything seemed in good condition. It evidently\
made no difference whether I was there to look after things or not. I\
had imagined that the condition of the cars, whether or not things were\
obtainable, the smooth functioning of the business of removing wounded\
and sick from the dressing stations, hauling them back from the\
mountains to the clearing station and then distributing them to the\
hospitals named on their papers, depended to a considerable extent on\
myself. Evidently it did not matter whether I was there or not.\
\
\'93Has there been any trouble getting parts?\'94 I asked the sergeant\
mechanic.\
\
\'93No, Signor Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93Where is the gasoline park now?\'94\
\
\'93At the same place.\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 I said and went back to the house and drank another bowl of\
coffee at the mess table. The coffee was a pale gray and sweet with\
condensed milk. Outside the window it was a lovely spring morning. There\
was that beginning of a feeling of dryness in the nose that meant the\
day would be hot later on. That day I visited the posts in the mountains\
and was back in town late in the afternoon.\
\
The whole thing seemed to run better while I was away. The offensive was\
going to start again I heard. The division for which we worked were to\
attack at a place up the river and the major told me that I would see\
about the posts for during the attack. The attack would cross the river\
up above the narrow gorge and spread up the hillside. The posts for the\
cars would have to be as near the river as they could get and keep\
covered. They would, of course, be selected by the infantry but we were\
supposed to work it out. It was one of those things that gave you a\
false feeling of soldiering.\
\
I was very dusty and dirty and went up to my room to wash. Rinaldi was\
sitting on the bed with a copy of Hugo\'92s English grammar. He was\
dressed, wore his black boots, and his hair shone.\
\
\'93Splendid,\'94 he said when he saw me. \'93You will come with me to see Miss\
Barkley.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. You will please come and make me a good impression on her.\'94\
\
\'93All right. Wait till I get cleaned up.\'94\
\
\'93Wash up and come as you are.\'94\
\
I washed, brushed my hair and we started.\
\
\'93Wait a minute,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93Perhaps we should have a drink.\'94 He\
opened his trunk and took out a bottle.\
\
\'93Not Strega,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93No. Grappa.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
He poured two glasses and we touched them, first fingers extended. The\
grappa was very strong.\
\
\'93Another?\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. We drank the second grappa, Rinaldi put away the\
bottle and we went down the stairs. It was hot walking through the town\
but the sun was starting to go down and it was very pleasant. The\
British hospital was a big villa built by Germans before the war. Miss\
Barkley was in the garden. Another nurse was with her. We saw their\
white uniforms through the trees and walked toward them. Rinaldi\
saluted. I saluted too but more moderately.\
\
\'93How do you do?\'94 Miss Barkley said. \'93You\'92re not an Italian, are you?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, no.\'94\
\
Rinaldi was talking with the other nurse. They were laughing.\
\
\'93What an odd thing\'97to be in the Italian army.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not really the army. It\'92s only the ambulance.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s very odd though. Why did you do it?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 I said. \'93There isn\'92t always an explanation for\
everything.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, isn\'92t there? I was brought up to think there was.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s awfully nice.\'94\
\
\'93_Do_ we have to go on and talk this way?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93That\'92s a relief. Isn\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93What is the stick?\'94 I asked. Miss Barkley was quite tall. She wore what\
seemed to me to be a nurse\'92s uniform, was blonde and had a tawny skin\
and gray eyes. I thought she was very beautiful. She was carrying a thin\
rattan stick like a toy riding-crop, bound in leather.\
\
\'93It belonged to a boy who was killed last year.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m awfully sorry.\'94\
\
\'93He was a very nice boy. He was going to marry me and he was killed in\
the Somme.\'94\
\
\'93It was a ghastly show.\'94\
\
\'93Were you there?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve heard about it,\'94 she said. \'93There\'92s not really any war of that\
sort down here. They sent me the little stick. His mother sent it to me.\
They returned it with his things.\'94\
\
\'93Had you been engaged long?\'94\
\
\'93Eight years. We grew up together.\'94\
\
\'93And why didn\'92t you marry?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 she said. \'93I was a fool not to. I could have given him\
that anyway. But I thought it would be bad for him.\'94\
\
\'93I see.\'94\
\
\'93Have you ever loved any one?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said.\
\
We sat down on a bench and I looked at her.\
\
\'93You have beautiful hair,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Do you like it?\'94\
\
\'93Very much.\'94\
\
\'93I was going to cut it all off when he died.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93I wanted to do something for him. You see I didn\'92t care about the other\
thing and he could have had it all. He could have had anything he wanted\
if I would have known. I would have married him or anything. I know all\
about it now. But then he wanted to go to war and I didn\'92t know.\'94\
\
I did not say anything.\
\
\'93I didn\'92t know about anything then. I thought it would be worse for him.\
I thought perhaps he couldn\'92t stand it and then of course he was killed\
and that was the end of it.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 she said. \'93That\'92s the end of it.\'94\
\
We looked at Rinaldi talking with the other nurse.\
\
\'93What is her name?\'94\
\
\'93Ferguson. Helen Ferguson. Your friend is a doctor, isn\'92t he?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. He\'92s very good.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s splendid. You rarely find any one any good this close to the\
front. This is close to the front, isn\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93Quite.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a silly front,\'94 she said. \'93But it\'92s very beautiful. Are they going\
to have an offensive?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Then we\'92ll have to work. There\'92s no work now.\'94\
\
\'93Have you done nursing long?\'94\
\
\'93Since the end of \'92fifteen. I started when he did. I remember having a\
silly idea he might come to the hospital where I was. With a sabre cut,\
I suppose, and a bandage around his head. Or shot through the shoulder.\
Something picturesque.\'94\
\
\'93This is the picturesque front,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 she said. \'93People can\'92t realize what France is like. If they did,\
it couldn\'92t all go on. He didn\'92t have a sabre cut. They blew him all to\
bits.\'94\
\
I didn\'92t say anything.\
\
\'93Do you suppose it will always go on?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s to stop it?\'94\
\
\'93It will crack somewhere.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll crack. We\'92ll crack in France. They can\'92t go on doing things like\
the Somme and not crack.\'94\
\
\'93They won\'92t crack here,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You think not?\'94\
\
\'93No. They did very well last summer.\'94\
\
\'93They may crack,\'94 she said. \'93Anybody may crack.\'94\
\
\'93The Germans too.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 she said. \'93I think not.\'94\
\
We went over toward Rinaldi and Miss Ferguson.\
\
\'93You love Italy?\'94 Rinaldi asked Miss Ferguson in English.\
\
\'93Quite well.\'94\
\
\'93No understand,\'94 Rinaldi shook his head.\
\
\'93Abbastanza bene,\'94 I translated. He shook his head.\
\
\'93That is not good. You love England?\'94\
\
\'93Not too well. I\'92m Scotch, you see.\'94\
\
Rinaldi looked at me blankly.\
\
\'93She\'92s Scotch, so she loves Scotland better than England,\'94 I said in\
Italian.\
\
\'93But Scotland is England.\'94\
\
I translated this for Miss Ferguson.\
\
\'93Pas encore,\'94 said Miss Ferguson.\
\
\'93Not really?\'94\
\
\'93Never. We do not like the English.\'94\
\
\'93Not like the English? Not like Miss Barkley?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, that\'92s different. You mustn\'92t take everything so literally.\'94\
\
After a while we said good-night and left. Walking home Rinaldi said,\
\'93Miss Barkley prefers you to me. That is very clear. But the little\
Scotch one is very nice.\'94\
\
\'93Very,\'94 I said. I had not noticed her. \'93You like her?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Rinaldi.\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER V\
\
The next afternoon I went to call on Miss Barkley again. She was not in\
the garden and I went to the side door of the villa where the ambulances\
drove up. Inside I saw the head nurse, who said Miss Barkley was on\
duty\'97\'93there\'92s a war on, you know.\'94\
\
I said I knew.\
\
\'93You\'92re the American in the Italian army?\'94 she asked.\
\
\'93Yes, ma\'92am.\'94\
\
\'93How did you happen to do that? Why didn\'92t you join up with us?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 I said. \'93Could I join now?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m afraid not now. Tell me. Why did you join up with the Italians?\'94\
\
\'93I was in Italy,\'94 I said, \'93and I spoke Italian.\'94\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m learning it. It\'92s a beautiful language.\'94\
\
\'93Somebody said you should be able to learn it in two weeks.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I\'92ll not learn it in two weeks. I\'92ve studied it for months now. You\
may come and see her after seven o\'92clock if you wish. She\'92ll be off\
then. But don\'92t bring a lot of Italians.\'94\
\
\'93Not even for the beautiful language?\'94\
\
\'93No. Nor for the beautiful uniforms.\'94\
\
\'93Good-evening,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93A rivederci, Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93A rivederla.\'94 I saluted and went out. It was impossible to salute\
foreigners as an Italian, without embarrassment. The Italian salute\
never seemed made for export.\
\
The day had been hot. I had been up the river to the bridgehead at\
Plava. It was there that the offensive was to begin. It had been\
impossible to advance on the far side the year before because there was\
only one road leading down from the pass to the pontoon bridge and it\
was under machine-gun and shell fire for nearly a mile. It was not wide\
enough either to carry all the transport for an offensive and the\
Austrians could make a shambles out of it. But the Italians had crossed\
and spread out a little way on the far side to hold about a mile and a\
half on the Austrian side of the river. It was a nasty place and the\
Austrians should not have let them hold it. I suppose it was mutual\
tolerance because the Austrians still kept a bridgehead further down the\
river. The Austrian trenches were above on the hillside only a few yards\
from the Italian lines. There had been a little town but it was all\
rubble. There was what was left of a railway station and a smashed\
permanent bridge that could not be repaired and used because it was in\
plain sight.\
\
I went along the narrow road down toward the river, left the car at the\
dressing station under the hill, crossed the pontoon bridge, which was\
protected by a shoulder of the mountain, and went through the trenches\
in the smashed-down town and along the edge of the slope. Everybody was\
in the dugouts. There were racks of rockets standing to be touched off\
to call for help from the artillery or to signal with if the telephone\
wires were cut. It was quiet, hot and dirty. I looked across the wire at\
the Austrian lines. Nobody was in sight. I had a drink with a captain\
that I knew in one of the dugouts and went back across the bridge.\
\
A new wide road was being finished that would go over the mountain and\
zig-zag down to the bridge. When this road was finished the offensive\
would start. It came down through the forest in sharp turns. The system\
was to bring everything down the new road and take the empty trucks,\
carts and loaded ambulances and all returning traffic up the old narrow\
road. The dressing station was on the Austrian side of the river under\
the edge of the hill and stretcher-bearers would bring the wounded back\
across the pontoon bridge. It would be the same when the offensive\
started. As far as I could make out the last mile or so of the new road\
where it started to level out would be able to be shelled steadily by\
the Austrians. It looked as though it might be a mess. But I found a\
place where the cars would be sheltered after they had passed that last\
bad-looking bit and could wait for the wounded to be brought across the\
pontoon bridge. I would have liked to drive over the new road but it was\
not yet finished. It looked wide and well made with a good grade and the\
turns looked very impressive where you could see them through openings\
in the forest on the mountain side. The cars would be all right with\
their good metal-to-metal brakes and anyway, coming down, they would not\
be loaded. I drove back up the narrow road.\
\
Two carabinieri held the car up. A shell had fallen and while we waited\
three others fell up the road. They were seventy-sevens and came with a\
whishing rush of air, a hard bright burst and flash and then gray smoke\
that blew across the road. The carabinieri waved us to go on. Passing\
where the shells had landed I avoided the small broken places and\
smelled the high explosive and the smell of blasted clay and stone and\
freshly shattered flint. I drove back to Gorizia and our villa and, as I\
said, went to call on Miss Barkley, who was on duty.\
\
At dinner I ate very quickly and left for the villa where the British\
had their hospital. It was really very large and beautiful and there\
were fine trees in the grounds. Miss Barkley was sitting on a bench in\
the garden. Miss Ferguson was with her. They seemed glad to see me and\
in a little while Miss Ferguson excused herself and went away.\
\
\'93I\'92ll leave you two,\'94 she said. \'93You get along very well without me.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t go, Helen,\'94 Miss Barkley said.\
\
\'93I\'92d really rather. I must write some letters.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Good-night, Mr. Henry.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t write anything that will bother the censor.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t worry. I only write about what a beautiful place we live in and\
how brave the Italians are.\'94\
\
\'93That way you\'92ll be decorated.\'94\
\
\'93That will be nice. Good-night, Catherine.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll see you in a little while,\'94 Miss Barkley said. Miss Ferguson\
walked away in the dark.\
\
\'93She\'92s nice,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Oh, yes, she\'92s very nice. She\'92s a nurse.\'94\
\
\'93Aren\'92t you a nurse?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, no. I\'92m something called a V. A. D. We work very hard but no one\
trusts us.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93They don\'92t trust us when there\'92s nothing going on. When there is really\
work they trust us.\'94\
\
\'93What is the difference?\'94\
\
\'93A nurse is like a doctor. It takes a long time to be. A V. A. D. is a\
short cut.\'94\
\
\'93I see.\'94\
\
\'93The Italians didn\'92t want women so near the front. So we\'92re all on very\
special behavior. We don\'92t go out.\'94\
\
\'93I can come here though.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. We\'92re not cloistered.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s drop the war.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s very hard. There\'92s no place to drop it.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s drop it anyway.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
We looked at each other in the dark. I thought she was very beautiful\
and I took her hand. She let me take it and I held it and put my arm\
around under her arm.\
\
\'93No,\'94 she said. I kept my arm where it was.\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93Please.\'94 I leaned forward in the dark to kiss her and\
there was a sharp stinging flash. She had slapped my face hard. Her hand\
had hit my nose and eyes, and tears came in my eyes from the reflex.\
\
\'93I\'92m so sorry,\'94 she said. I felt I had a certain advantage.\
\
\'93You were quite right.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m dreadfully sorry,\'94 she said. \'93I just couldn\'92t stand the\
nurse\'92s-evening-off aspect of it. I didn\'92t mean to hurt you. I did hurt\
you, didn\'92t I?\'94\
\
She was looking at me in the dark. I was angry and yet certain, seeing\
it all ahead like the moves in a chess game.\
\
\'93You did exactly right,\'94 I said. \'93I don\'92t mind at all.\'94\
\
\'93Poor man.\'94\
\
\'93You see I\'92ve been leading a sort of a funny life. And I never even talk\
English. And then you are so very beautiful.\'94 I looked at her.\
\
\'93You don\'92t need to say a lot of nonsense. I said I was sorry. We do get\
along.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93And we have gotten away from the war.\'94\
\
She laughed. It was the first time I had ever heard her laugh. I watched\
her face.\
\
\'93You are sweet,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93No, I\'92m not.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. You are a dear. I\'92d be glad to kiss you if you don\'92t mind.\'94\
\
I looked in her eyes and put my arm around her as I had before and\
kissed her. I kissed her hard and held her tight and tried to open her\
lips; they were closed tight. I was still angry and as I held her\
suddenly she shivered. I held her close against me and could feel her\
heart beating and her lips opened and her head went back against my hand\
and then she was crying on my shoulder.\
\
\'93Oh, darling,\'94 she said. \'93You will be good to me, won\'92t you?\'94\
\
What the hell, I thought. I stroked her hair and patted her shoulder.\
She was crying.\
\
\'93You will, won\'92t you?\'94 She looked up at me. \'93Because we\'92re going to have\
a strange life.\'94\
\
After a while I walked with her to the door of the villa and she went in\
and I walked home. Back at the villa I went upstairs to the room.\
Rinaldi was lying on his bed. He looked at me.\
\
\'93So you make progress with Miss Barkley?\'94\
\
\'93We are friends.\'94\
\
\'93You have that pleasant air of a dog in heat.\'94\
\
I did not understand the word.\
\
\'93Of a what?\'94\
\
He explained.\
\
\'93You,\'94 I said, \'93have that pleasant air of a dog who\'97\'94\
\
\'93Stop it,\'94 he said. \'93In a little while we would say insulting things.\'94\
He laughed.\
\
\'93Good-night,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Good-night, little puppy.\'94\
\
I knocked over his candle with the pillow and got into bed in the dark.\
\
Rinaldi picked up the candle, lit it and went on reading.\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER VI\
\
I was away for two days at the posts. When I got home it was too late\
and I did not see Miss Barkley until the next evening. She was not in\
the garden and I had to wait in the office of the hospital until she\
came down. There were many marble busts on painted wooden pillars along\
the walls of the room they used for an office. The hall too, that the\
office opened on, was lined with them. They had the complete marble\
quality of all looking alike. Sculpture had always seemed a dull\
business\'97still, bronzes looked like something. But marble busts all\
looked like a cemetery. There was one fine cemetery though\'97the one at\
Pisa. Genoa was the place to see the bad marbles. This had been the\
villa of a very wealthy German and the busts must have cost him plenty.\
I wondered who had done them and how much he got. I tried to make out\
whether they were members of the family or what; but they were all\
uniformly classical. You could not tell anything about them.\
\
I sat on a chair and held my cap. We were supposed to wear steel helmets\
even in Gorizia but they were uncomfortable and too bloody theatrical in\
a town where the civilian inhabitants had not been evacuated. I wore one\
when we went up to the posts and carried an English gas mask. We were\
just beginning to get some of them. They were a real mask. Also we were\
required to wear an automatic pistol; even doctors and sanitary\
officers. I felt it against the back of the chair. You were liable to\
arrest if you did not have one worn in plain sight. Rinaldi carried a\
holster stuffed with toilet paper. I wore a real one and felt like a\
gunman until I practised firing it. It was an Astra 7.65 caliber with a\
short barrel and it jumped so sharply when you let it off that there was\
no question of hitting anything. I practised with it, holding below the\
target and trying to master the jerk of the ridiculous short barrel\
until I could hit within a yard of where I aimed at twenty paces and\
then the ridiculousness of carrying a pistol at all came over me and I\
soon forgot it and carried it flopping against the small of my back with\
no feeling at all except a vague sort of shame when I met\
English-speaking people. I sat now in the chair and an orderly of some\
sort looked at me disapprovingly from behind a desk while I looked at\
the marble floor, the pillars with the marble busts, and the frescoes on\
the wall and waited for Miss Barkley. The frescoes were not bad. Any\
frescoes were good when they started to peel and flake off.\
\
I saw Catherine Barkley coming down the hall, and stood up. She did not\
seem tall walking toward me but she looked very lovely.\
\
\'93Good-evening, Mr. Henry,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93How do you do?\'94 I said. The orderly was listening behind the desk.\
\
\'93Shall we sit here or go out in the garden?\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go out. It\'92s much cooler.\'94\
\
I walked behind her out into the garden, the orderly looking after us.\
When we were out on the gravel drive she said, \'93Where have you been?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been out on post.\'94\
\
\'93You couldn\'92t have sent me a note?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93Not very well. I thought I was coming back.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to have let me know, darling.\'94\
\
We were off the driveway, walking under the trees. I took her hands,\
then stopped and kissed her.\
\
\'93Isn\'92t there anywhere we can go?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 she said. \'93We have to just walk here. You\'92ve been away a long\
time.\'94\
\
\'93This is the third day. But I\'92m back now.\'94\
\
She looked at me, \'93And you do love me?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93You did say you loved me, didn\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I lied. \'93I love you.\'94 I had not said it before.\
\
\'93And you call me Catherine?\'94\
\
\'93Catherine.\'94 We walked on a way and were stopped under a tree.\
\
\'93Say, \'91I\'92ve come back to Catherine in the night.\'92\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve come back to Catherine in the night.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, darling, you have come back, haven\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93I love you so and it\'92s been awful. You won\'92t go away?\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92ll always come back.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I love you so. Please put your hand there again.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not been away.\'94 I turned her so I could see her face when I kissed\
her and I saw that her eyes were shut. I kissed both her shut eyes. I\
thought she was probably a little crazy. It was all right if she was. I\
did not care what I was getting into. This was better than going every\
evening to the house for officers where the girls climbed all over you\
and put your cap on backward as a sign of affection between their trips\
upstairs with brother officers. I knew I did not love Catherine Barkley\
nor had any idea of loving her. This was a game, like bridge, in which\
you said things instead of playing cards. Like bridge you had to pretend\
you were playing for money or playing for some stakes. Nobody had\
mentioned what the stakes were. It was all right with me.\
\
\'93I wish there was some place we could go,\'94 I said. I was experiencing\
the masculine difficulty of making love very long standing up.\
\
\'93There isn\'92t any place,\'94 she said. She came back from wherever she had\
been.\
\
\'93We might sit there just for a little while.\'94\
\
We sat on the flat stone bench and I held Catherine Barkley\'92s hand. She\
would not let me put my arm around her.\
\
\'93Are you very tired?\'94 she asked.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
She looked down at the grass.\
\
\'93This is a rotten game we play, isn\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93What game?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be dull.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not, on purpose.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a nice boy,\'94 she said. \'93And you play it as well as you know how.\
But it\'92s a rotten game.\'94\
\
\'93Do you always know what people think?\'94\
\
\'93Not always. But I do with you. You don\'92t have to pretend you love me.\
That\'92s over for the evening. Is there anything you\'92d like to talk\
about?\'94\
\
\'93But I do love you.\'94\
\
\'93Please let\'92s not lie when we don\'92t have to. I had a very fine little\
show and I\'92m all right now. You see I\'92m not mad and I\'92m not gone off.\
It\'92s only a little sometimes.\'94\
\
I pressed her hand, \'93Dear Catherine.\'94\
\
\'93It sounds very funny now\'97Catherine. You don\'92t pronounce it very much\
alike. But you\'92re very nice. You\'92re a very good boy.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s what the priest said.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, you\'92re very good. And you will come and see me?\'94\
\
\'93Of course.\'94\
\
\'93And you don\'92t have to say you love me. That\'92s all over for a while.\'94\
She stood up and put out her hand. \'93Good-night.\'94\
\
I wanted to kiss her.\
\
\'93No,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m awfully tired.\'94\
\
\'93Kiss me, though,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92m awfully tired, darling.\'94\
\
\'93Kiss me.\'94\
\
\'93Do you want to very much?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
We kissed and she broke away suddenly. \'93No. Good-night, please,\
darling.\'94 We walked to the door and I saw her go in and down the hall. I\
liked to watch her move. She went on down the hall. I went on home. It\
was a hot night and there was a good deal going on up in the mountains.\
I watched the flashes on San Gabriele.\
\
I stopped in front of the Villa Rossa. The shutters were up but it was\
still going on inside. Somebody was singing. I went on home. Rinaldi\
came in while I was undressing.\
\
\'93Ah, ha!\'94 he said. \'93It does not go so well. Baby is puzzled.\'94\
\
\'93Where have you been?\'94\
\
\'93At the Villa Rossa. It was very edifying, baby. We all sang. Where have\
you been?\'94\
\
\'93Calling on the British.\'94\
\
\'93Thank God I did not become involved with the British.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER VII\
\
I came back the next afternoon from our first mountain post and stopped\
the car at the _smistimento_ where the wounded and sick were sorted by\
their papers and the papers marked for the different hospitals. I had\
been driving and I sat in the car and the driver took the papers in. It\
was a hot day and the sky was very bright and blue and the road was\
white and dusty. I sat in the high seat of the Fiat and thought about\
nothing. A regiment went by in the road and I watched them pass. The men\
were hot and sweating. Some wore their steel helmets but most of them\
carried them slung from their packs. Most of the helmets were too big\
and came down almost over the ears of the men who wore them. The\
officers all wore helmets; better-fitting helmets. It was half of the\
brigata Basilicata. I identified them by their red and white striped\
collar mark. There were stragglers going by long after the regiment had\
passed\'97men who could not keep up with their platoons. They were sweaty,\
dusty and tired. Some looked pretty bad. A soldier came along after the\
last of the stragglers. He was walking with a limp. He stopped and sat\
down beside the road. I got down and went over.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
He looked at me, then stood up.\
\
\'93I\'92m going on.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the trouble?\'94\
\
\'93\'97\'97 the war.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s wrong with your leg?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not my leg. I got a rupture.\'94\
\
\'93Why don\'92t you ride with the transport?\'94 I asked. \'93Why don\'92t you go to\
the hospital?\'94\
\
\'93They won\'92t let me. The lieutenant said I slipped the truss on purpose.\'94\
\
\'93Let me feel it.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s way out.\'94\
\
\'93Which side is it on?\'94\
\
\'93Here.\'94\
\
I felt it.\
\
\'93Cough,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92m afraid it will make it bigger. It\'92s twice as big as it was this\
morning.\'94\
\
\'93Sit down,\'94 I said. \'93As soon as I get the papers on these wounded I\'92ll\
take you along the road and drop you with your medical officers.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92ll say I did it on purpose.\'94\
\
\'93They can\'92t do anything,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s not a wound. You\'92ve had it\
before, haven\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93But I lost the truss.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92ll send you to a hospital.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t I stay here, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93No, I haven\'92t any papers for you.\'94\
\
The driver came out of the door with the papers for the wounded in the\
car.\
\
\'93Four for 105. Two for 132,\'94 he said. They were hospitals beyond the\
river.\
\
\'93You drive,\'94 I said. I helped the soldier with the rupture up on the\
seat with us.\
\
\'93You speak English?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93How you like this goddam war?\'94\
\
\'93Rotten.\'94\
\
\'93I say it\'92s rotten. Jesus Christ, I say it\'92s rotten.\'94\
\
\'93Were you in the States?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. In Pittsburg. I knew you was an American.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t I talk Italian good enough?\'94\
\
\'93I knew you was an American all right.\'94\
\
\'93Another American,\'94 said the driver in Italian looking at the hernia\
man.\
\
\'93Listen, lootenant. Do you have to take me to that regiment?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Because the captain doctor knew I had this rupture. I threw away the\
goddam truss so it would get bad and I wouldn\'92t have to go to the line\
again.\'94\
\
\'93I see.\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t you take me no place else?\'94\
\
\'93If it was closer to the front I could take you to a first medical post.\
But back here you\'92ve got to have papers.\'94\
\
\'93If I go back they\'92ll make me get operated on and then they\'92ll put me in\
the line all the time.\'94\
\
I thought it over.\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t want to go in the line all the time, would you?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Jesus Christ, ain\'92t this a goddam war?\'94\
\
\'93Listen,\'94 I said. \'93You get out and fall down by the road and get a bump\
on your head and I\'92ll pick you up on our way back and take you to a\
hospital. We\'92ll stop by the road here, Aldo.\'94 We stopped at the side of\
the road. I helped him down.\
\
\'93I\'92ll be right here, lieutenant,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93So long,\'94 I said. We went on and passed the regiment about a mile\
ahead, then crossed the river, cloudy with snow-water and running fast\
through the spiles of the bridge, to ride along the road across the\
plain and deliver the wounded at the two hospitals. I drove coming back\
and went fast with the empty car to find the man from Pittsburg. First\
we passed the regiment, hotter and slower than ever: then the\
stragglers. Then we saw a horse ambulance stopped by the road. Two men\
were lifting the hernia man to put him in. They had come back for him.\
He shook his head at me. His helmet was off and his forehead was\
bleeding below the hair line. His nose was skinned and there was dust on\
the bloody patch and dust in his hair.\
\
\'93Look at the bump, lieutenant!\'94 he shouted. \'93Nothing to do. They come\
back for me.\'94\
\
\
\
When I got back to the villa it was five o\'92clock and I went out where we\
washed the cars, to take a shower. Then I made out my report in my room,\
sitting in my trousers and an undershirt in front of the open window. In\
two days the offensive was to start and I would go with the cars to\
Plava. It was a long time since I had written to the States and I knew I\
should write but I had let it go so long that it was almost impossible\
to write now. There was nothing to write about. I sent a couple of army\
Zona di Guerra post-cards, crossing out everything except, I am well.\
That should handle them. Those post-cards would be very fine in America;\
strange and mysterious. This was a strange and mysterious war zone but I\
supposed it was quite well run and grim compared to other wars with the\
Austrians. The Austrian army was created to give Napoleon victories; any\
Napoleon. I wished we had a Napoleon, but instead we had Il Generale\
Cadorna, fat and prosperous, and Vittorio Emmanuele, the tiny man with\
the long thin neck and the goat beard. Over on the right they had the\
Duke of Aosta. Maybe he was too good-looking to be a great general but\
he looked like a man. Lots of them would have liked him to be king. He\
looked like a king. He was the King\'92s uncle and commanded the third\
army. We were in the second army. There were some British batteries up\
with the third army. I had met two gunners from that lot, in Milan. They\
were very nice and we had a big evening. They were big and shy and\
embarrassed and very appreciative together of anything that happened. I\
wish that I was with the British. It would have been much simpler. Still\
I would probably have been killed. Not in this ambulance business. Yes,\
even in the ambulance business. British ambulance drivers were killed\
sometimes. Well, I knew I would not be killed. Not in this war. It did\
not have anything to do with me. It seemed no more dangerous to me\
myself than war in the movies. I wished to God it was over though. Maybe\
it would finish this summer. Maybe the Austrians would crack. They had\
always cracked in other wars. What was the matter with this war?\
Everybody said the French were through. Rinaldi said that the French had\
mutinied and troops marched on Paris. I asked him what happened and he\
said, \'93Oh, they stopped them.\'94 I wanted to go to Austria without war. I\
wanted to go to the Black Forest. I wanted to go to the Hartz Mountains.\
Where were the Hartz Mountains anyway? They were fighting in the\
Carpathians. I did not want to go there anyway. It might be good though.\
I could go to Spain if there was no war. The sun was going down and the\
day was cooling off. After supper I would go and see Catherine Barkley.\
I wished she were here now. I wished I were in Milan with her. I would\
like to eat at the Cova and then walk down the Via Manzoni in the hot\
evening and cross over and turn off along the canal and go to the hotel\
with Catherine Barkley. Maybe she would. Maybe she would pretend that I\
was her boy that was killed and we would go in the front door and the\
porter would take off his cap and I would stop at the concierge\'92s desk\
and ask for the key and she would stand by the elevator and then we\
would get in the elevator and it would go up very slowly clicking at all\
the floors and then our floor and the boy would open the door and stand\
there and she would step out and I would step out and we would walk down\
the hall and I would put the key in the door and open it and go in and\
then take down the telephone and ask them to send a bottle of capri\
bianca in a silver bucket full of ice and you would hear the ice against\
the pail coming down the corridor and the boy would knock and I would\
say leave it outside the door please. Because we would not wear any\
clothes because it was so hot and the window open and the swallows\
flying over the roofs of the houses and when it was dark afterward and\
you went to the window very small bats hunting over the houses and close\
down over the trees and we would drink the capri and the door locked and\
it hot and only a sheet and the whole night and we would both love each\
other all night in the hot night in Milan. That was how it ought to be.\
I would eat quickly and go and see Catherine Barkley.\
\
They talked too much at the mess and I drank wine because to-night we\
were not all brothers unless I drank a little and talked with the priest\
about Archbishop Ireland who was, it seemed, a noble man and with whose\
injustice, the injustices he had received and in which I participated as\
an American, and of which I had never heard, I feigned acquaintance. It\
would have been impolite not to have known something of them when I had\
listened to such a splendid explanation of their causes which were,\
after all, it seemed, misunderstandings. I thought he had a fine name\
and he came from Minnesota which made a lovely name: Ireland of\
Minnesota, Ireland of Wisconsin, Ireland of Michigan. What made it\
pretty was that it sounded like Island. No that wasn\'92t it. There was\
more to it than that. Yes, father. That is true, father. Perhaps,\
father. No, father. Well, maybe yes, father. You know more about it than\
I do, father. The priest was good but dull. The officers were not good\
but dull. The King was good but dull. The wine was bad but not dull. It\
took the enamel off your teeth and left it on the roof of your mouth.\
\
\'93And the priest was locked up,\'94 Rocca said, \'93because they found the\
three per cent bonds on his person. It was in France of course. Here\
they would never have arrested him. He denied all knowledge of the five\
per cent bonds. This took place at B\'e9ziers. I was there and reading of\
it in the paper, went to the jail and asked to see the priest. It was\
quite evident he had stolen the bonds.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe a word of this,\'94 Rinaldi said.\
\
\'93Just as you like,\'94 Rocca said. \'93But I am telling it for our priest\
here. It is very informative. He is a priest; he will appreciate it.\'94\
\
The priest smiled. \'93Go on,\'94 he said. \'93I am listening.\'94\
\
\'93Of course some of the bonds were not accounted for but the priest had\
all of the three per cent bonds and several local obligations, I forget\
exactly what they were. So I went to the jail, now this is the point of\
the story, and I stood outside his cell and I said as though I were\
going to confession, \'91Bless me, father, for you have sinned.\'92\'94\
\
There was great laughter from everybody.\
\
\'93And what did he say?\'94 asked the priest. Rocca ignored this and went on\
to explain the joke to me. \'93You see the point, don\'92t you?\'94 It seemed it\
was a very funny joke if you understood it properly. They poured me more\
wine and I told the story about the English private soldier who was\
placed under the shower bath. Then the major told the story of the\
eleven Czecho-slovaks and the Hungarian corporal. After some more wine I\
told the story of the jockey who found the penny. The major said there\
was an Italian story something like that about the duchess who could not\
sleep at night. At this point the priest left and I told the story about\
the travelling salesman who arrived at five o\'92clock in the morning at\
Marseilles when the mistral was blowing. The major said he had heard a\
report that I could drink. I denied this. He said it was true and by the\
corpse of Bacchus we would test whether it was true or not. Not Bacchus,\
I said. Not Bacchus. Yes, Bacchus, he said. I should drink cup for cup\
and glass for glass with Bassi, Fillipo Vincenza. Bassi said no that was\
no test because he had already drunk twice as much as I. I said that was\
a foul lie and, Bacchus or no Bacchus, Fillipo Vincenza Bassi or Bassi\
Fillippo Vicenza had never touched a drop all evening and what was his\
name anyway? He said was my name Frederico Enrico or Enrico Federico? I\
said let the best man win, Bacchus barred, and the major started us with\
red wine in mugs. Half-way through the wine I did not want any more. I\
remembered where I was going.\
\
\'93Bassi wins,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s a better man than I am. I have to go.\'94\
\
\'93He does really,\'94 said Rinaldi. \'93He has a rendezvous. I know all about\
it.\'94\
\
\'93I have to go.\'94\
\
\'93Another night,\'94 said Bassi. \'93Another night when you feel stronger.\'94 He\
slapped me on the shoulder. There were lighted candles on the table. All\
the officers were very happy. \'93Good-night, gentlemen,\'94 I said.\
\
Rinaldi went out with me. We stood outside the door on the patch and he\
said, \'93You\'92d better not go up there drunk.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not drunk, Rinin. Really.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d better chew some coffee.\'94\
\
\'93Nonsense.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll get some, baby. You walk up and down.\'94 He came back with a handful\
of roasted coffee beans. \'93Chew those, baby, and God be with you.\'94\
\
\'93Bacchus,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll walk down with you.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m perfectly all right.\'94\
\
We walked along together through the town and I chewed the coffee. At\
the gate of the driveway that led up to the British villa, Rinaldi said\
good-night.\
\
\'93Good-night,\'94 I said. \'93Why don\'92t you come in?\'94\
\
He shook his head. \'93No,\'94 he said, \'93I like the simpler pleasures.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you for the coffee beans.\'94\
\
\'93Nothing, baby. Nothing.\'94\
\
I started down the driveway. The outlines of the cypresses that lined it\
were sharp and clear. I looked back and saw Rinaldi standing watching me\
and waved to him.\
\
I sat in the reception hall of the villa, waiting for Catherine Barkley\
to come down. Some one was coming down the hall-way. I stood up, but it\
was not Catherine. It was Miss Ferguson.\
\
\'93Hello,\'94 she said. \'93Catherine asked me to tell you she was sorry she\
couldn\'92t see you this evening.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m so sorry. I hope she\'92s not ill.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s not awfully well.\'94\
\
\'93Will you tell her how sorry I am?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I will.\'94\
\
\'93Do you think it would be any good to try and see her to-morrow?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I do.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you very much,\'94 I said. \'93Good-night.\'94\
\
I went out the door and suddenly I felt lonely and empty. I had treated\
seeing Catherine very lightly, I had gotten somewhat drunk and had\
nearly forgotten to come but when I could not see her there I was\
feeling lonely and hollow.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER VIII\
\
The next afternoon we heard there was to be an attack up the river that\
night and that we were to take four cars there. Nobody knew anything\
about it although they all spoke with great positiveness and strategical\
knowledge. I was riding in the first car and as we passed the entry to\
the British hospital I told the driver to stop. The other cars pulled\
up. I got out and told the driver to go on and that if we had not caught\
up to them at the junction of the road to Cormons to wait there. I\
hurried up the driveway and inside the reception hall I asked for Miss\
Barkley.\
\
\'93She\'92s on duty.\'94\
\
\'93Could I see her just for a moment?\'94\
\
They sent an orderly to see and she came back with him.\
\
\'93I stopped to ask if you were better. They told me you were on duty, so\
I asked to see you.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m quite well,\'94 she said, \'93I think the heat knocked me over\
yesterday.\'94\
\
\'93I have to go.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll just step out the door a minute.\'94\
\
\'93And you\'92re all right?\'94 I asked outside.\
\
\'93Yes, darling. Are you coming to-night?\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92m leaving now for a show up above Plava.\'94\
\
\'93A show?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think it\'92s anything.\'94\
\
\'93And you\'92ll be back?\'94\
\
\'93To-morrow.\'94\
\
She was unclasping something from her neck. She put it in my hand. \'93It\'92s\
a Saint Anthony,\'94 she said. \'93And come to-morrow night.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re not a Catholic, are you?\'94\
\
\'93No. But they say a Saint Anthony\'92s very useful.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll take care of him for you. Good-by.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 she said, \'93not good-by.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Be a good boy and be careful. No, you can\'92t kiss me here. You can\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
I looked back and saw her standing on the steps. She waved and I kissed\
my hand and held it out. She waved again and then I was out of the\
driveway and climbing up into the seat of the ambulance and we started.\
The Saint Anthony was in a little white metal capsule. I opened the\
capsule and spilled him out into my hand.\
\
\'93Saint Anthony?\'94 asked the driver.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93I have one.\'94 His right hand left the wheel and opened a button on his\
tunic and pulled it out from under his shirt.\
\
\'93See?\'94\
\
I put my Saint Anthony back in the capsule, spilled the thin gold chain\
together and put it all in my breast pocket.\
\
\'93You don\'92t wear him?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s better to wear him. That\'92s what it\'92s for.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. I undid the clasp of the gold chain and put it\
around my neck and clasped it. The saint hung down on the outside of my\
uniform and I undid the throat of my tunic, unbuttoned the shirt collar\
and dropped him in under the shirt. I felt him in his metal box against\
my chest while we drove. Then I forgot about him. After I was wounded I\
never found him. Some one probably got it at one of the dressing\
stations.\
\
We drove fast when we were over the bridge and soon we saw the dust of\
the other cars ahead down the road. The road curved and we saw the three\
cars looking quite small, the dust rising from the wheels and going off\
through the trees. We caught them and passed them and turned off on a\
road that climbed up into the hills. Driving in convoy is not unpleasant\
if you are the first car and I settled back in the seat and watched the\
country. We were in the foot-hills on the near side of the river and as\
the road mounted there were the high mountains off to the north with\
snow still on the tops. I looked back and saw the three cars all\
climbing, spaced by the interval of their dust. We passed a long column\
of loaded mules, the drivers walking along beside the mules wearing red\
fezzes. They were bersaglieri.\
\
Beyond the mule train the road was empty and we climbed through the\
hills and then went down over the shoulder of a long hill into a\
river-valley. There were trees along both sides of the road and through\
the right line of trees I saw the river, the water clear, fast and\
shallow. The river was low and there were stretches of sand and pebbles\
with a narrow channel of water and sometimes the water spread like a\
sheen over the pebbly bed. Close to the bank I saw deep pools, the water\
blue like the sky. I saw arched stone bridges over the river where\
tracks turned off from the road and we passed stone farmhouses with pear\
trees candelabraed against their south walls and low stone walls in the\
fields. The road went up the valley a long way and then we turned off\
and commenced to climb into the hills again. The road climbed steeply\
going up and back and forth through chestnut woods to level finally\
along a ridge. I could look down through the woods and see, far below,\
with the sun on it, the line of the river that separated the two armies.\
We went along the rough new military road that followed the crest of the\
ridge and I looked to the north at the two ranges of mountains, green\
and dark to the snow-line and then white and lovely in the sun. Then, as\
the road mounted along the ridge, I saw a third range of mountains,\
higher snow mountains, that looked chalky white and furrowed, with\
strange planes, and then there were mountains far off beyond all these\
that you could hardly tell if you really saw. Those were all the\
Austrians\'92 mountains and we had nothing like them. Ahead there was a\
rounded turn-off in the road to the right and looking down I could see\
the road dropping through the trees. There were troops on this road and\
motor trucks and mules with mountain guns and as we went down, keeping\
to the side, I could see the river far down below, the line of ties and\
rails running along it, the old bridge where the railway crossed to the\
other side and across, under a hill beyond the river, the broken houses\
of the little town that was to be taken.\
\
It was nearly dark when we came down and turned onto the main road that\
ran beside the river.\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER IX\
\
The road was crowded and there were screens of corn-stalk and straw\
matting on both sides and matting over the top so that it was like the\
entrance at a circus or a native village. We drove slowly in this\
matting-covered tunnel and came out onto a bare cleared space where the\
railway station had been. The road here was below the level of the river\
bank and all along the side of the sunken road there were holes dug in\
the bank with infantry in them. The sun was going down and looking up\
along the bank as we drove I saw the Austrian observation balloons above\
the hills on the other side dark against the sunset. We parked the cars\
beyond a brickyard. The ovens and some deep holes had been equipped as\
dressing stations. There were three doctors that I knew. I talked with\
the major and learned that when it should start and our cars should be\
loaded we would drive them back along the screened road and up to the\
main road along the ridge where there would be a post and other cars to\
clear them. He hoped the road would not jam. It was a one-road show. The\
road was screened because it was in sight of the Austrians across the\
river. Here at the brickyard we were sheltered from rifle or machine-gun\
fire by the river bank. There was one smashed bridge across the river.\
They were going to put over another bridge when the bombardment started\
and some troops were to cross at the shallows up above at the bend of\
the river. The major was a little man with upturned mustaches. He had\
been in the war in Libya and wore two wound-stripes. He said that if the\
thing went well he would see that I was decorated. I said I hoped it\
would go well but that he was too kind. I asked him if there was a big\
dugout where the drivers could stay and he sent a soldier to show me. I\
went with him and found the dugout, which was very good. The drivers\
were pleased with it and I left them there. The major asked me to have a\
drink with him and two other officers. We drank rum and it was very\
friendly. Outside it was getting dark. I asked what time the attack was\
to be and they said as soon as it was dark. I went back to the drivers.\
They were sitting in the dugout talking and when I came in they stopped.\
I gave them each a package of cigarettes, Macedonias, loosely packed\
cigarettes that spilled tobacco and needed to have the ends twisted\
before you smoked them. Manera lit his lighter and passed it around. The\
lighter was shaped like a Fiat radiator. I told them what I had heard.\
\
\'93Why didn\'92t we see the post when we came down?\'94 Passini asked.\
\
\'93It was just beyond where we turned off.\'94\
\
\'93That road will be a dirty mess,\'94 Manera said.\
\
\'93They\'92ll shell the \'97\'97 out of us.\'94\
\
\'93Probably.\'94\
\
\'93What about eating, lieutenant? We won\'92t get a chance to eat after this\
thing starts.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll go and see now,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You want us to stay here or can we look around?\'94\
\
\'93Better stay here.\'94\
\
I went back to the major\'92s dugout and he said the field kitchen would be\
along and the drivers could come and get their stew. He would loan them\
mess tins if they did not have them. I said I thought they had them. I\
went back and told the drivers I would get them as soon as the food\
came. Manera said he hoped it would come before the bombardment started.\
They were silent until I went out. They were all mechanics and hated the\
war.\
\
I went out to look at the cars and see what was going on and then came\
back and sat down in the dugout with the four drivers. We sat on the\
ground with our backs against the wall and smoked. Outside it was nearly\
dark. The earth of the dugout was warm and dry and I let my shoulders\
back against the wall, sitting on the small of my back, and relaxed.\
\
\'93Who goes to the attack?\'94 asked Gavuzzi.\
\
\'93Bersaglieri.\'94\
\
\'93All bersaglieri?\'94\
\
\'93I think so.\'94\
\
\'93There aren\'92t enough troops here for a real attack.\'94\
\
\'93It is probably to draw attention from where the real attack will be.\'94\
\
\'93Do the men know that who attack?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so.\'94\
\
\'93Of course they don\'92t,\'94 Manera said. \'93They wouldn\'92t attack if they did.\'94\
\
\'93Yes they would,\'94 Passini said. \'93Bersaglieri are fools.\'94\
\
\'93They are brave and have good discipline,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93They are big through the chest by measurement, and healthy. But they\
are still fools.\'94\
\
\'93The granatieri are tall,\'94 Manera said. This was a joke. They all\
laughed.\
\
\'93Were you there, Tenente, when they wouldn\'92t attack and they shot every\
tenth man?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93It is true. They lined them up afterward and took every tenth man.\
Carabinieri shot them.\'94\
\
\'93Carabinieri,\'94 said Passini and spat on the floor. \'93But those\
grenadiers; all over six feet. They wouldn\'92t attack.\'94\
\
\'93If everybody would not attack the war would be over,\'94 Manera said.\
\
\'93It wasn\'92t that way with the granatieri. They were afraid. The officers\
all came from such good families.\'94\
\
\'93Some of the officers went alone.\'94\
\
\'93A sergeant shot two officers who would not get out.\'94\
\
\'93Some troops went out.\'94\
\
\'93Those that went out were not lined up when they took the tenth men.\'94\
\
\'93One of those shot by the carabinieri is from my town,\'94 Passini said.\
\'93He was a big smart tall boy to be in the granatieri. Always in Rome.\
Always with the girls. Always with the carabinieri.\'94 He laughed. \'93Now\
they have a guard outside his house with a bayonet and nobody can come\
to see his mother and father and sisters and his father loses his civil\
rights and cannot even vote. They are all without law to protect them.\
Anybody can take their property.\'94\
\
\'93If it wasn\'92t that that happens to their families nobody would go to the\
attack.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Alpini would. These V. E. soldiers would. Some bersaglieri.\'94\
\
\'93Bersaglieri have run too. Now they try to forget it.\'94\
\
\'93You should not let us talk this way, Tenente. Evviva l\'92esercito,\'94\
Passini said sarcastically.\
\
\'93I know how you talk,\'94 I said. \'93But as long as you drive the cars and\
behave\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93\'97and don\'92t talk so other officers can hear,\'94 Manera finished.\
\
\'93I believe we should get the war over,\'94 I said. \'93It would not finish it\
if one side stopped fighting. It would only be worse if we stopped\
fighting.\'94\
\
\'93It could not be worse,\'94 Passini said respectfully. \'93There is nothing\
worse than war.\'94\
\
\'93Defeat is worse.\'94\
\
\'93I do not believe it,\'94 Passini said still respectfully. \'93What is defeat?\
You go home.\'94\
\
\'93They come after you. They take your home. They take your sisters.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe it,\'94 Passini said. \'93They can\'92t do that to everybody.\
Let everybody defend his home. Let them keep their sisters in the\
house.\'94\
\
\'93They hang you. They come and make you be a soldier again. Not in the\
auto-ambulance, in the infantry.\'94\
\
\'93They can\'92t hang every one.\'94\
\
\'93An outside nation can\'92t make you be a soldier,\'94 Manera said. \'93At the\
first battle you all run.\'94\
\
\'93Like the Tchecos.\'94\
\
\'93I think you do not know anything about being conquered and so you think\
it is not bad.\'94\
\
\'93Tenente,\'94 Passini said. \'93We understand you let us talk. Listen. There\
is nothing as bad as war. We in the auto-ambulance cannot even realize\
at all how bad it is. When people realize how bad it is they cannot do\
anything to stop it because they go crazy. There are some people who\
never realize. There are people who are afraid of their officers. It is\
with them that war is made.\'94\
\
\'93I know it is bad but we must finish it.\'94\
\
\'93It doesn\'92t finish. There is no finish to a war.\'94\
\
\'93Yes there is.\'94\
\
Passini shook his head.\
\
\'93War is not won by victory. What if we take San Gabriele? What if we\
take the Carso and Monfalcone and Trieste? Where are we then? Did you\
see all the far mountains to-day? Do you think we could take all them\
too? Only if the Austrians stop fighting. One side must stop fighting.\
Why don\'92t we stop fighting? If they come down into Italy they will get\
tired and go away. They have their own country. But no, instead there is\
a war.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re an orator.\'94\
\
\'93We think. We read. We are not peasants. We are mechanics. But even the\
peasants know better than to believe in a war. Everybody hates this\
war.\'94\
\
\'93There is a class that controls a country that is stupid and does not\
realize anything and never can. That is why we have this war.\'94\
\
\'93Also they make money out of it.\'94\
\
\'93Most of them don\'92t,\'94 said Passini. \'93They are too stupid. They do it for\
nothing. For stupidity.\'94\
\
\'93We must shut up,\'94 said Manera. \'93We talk too much even for the Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93He likes it,\'94 said Passini. \'93We will convert him.\'94\
\
\'93But now we will shut up,\'94 Manera said.\
\
\'93Do we eat yet, Tenente?\'94 Gavuzzi asked.\
\
\'93I will go and see,\'94 I said. Gordini stood up and went outside with me.\
\
\'93Is there anything I can do, Tenente? Can I help in any way?\'94 He was the\
quietest one of the four. \'93Come with me if you want,\'94 I said, \'93and we\'92ll\
see.\'94\
\
It was dark outside and the long light from the search-lights was moving\
over the mountains. There were big search-lights on that front mounted\
on camions that you passed sometimes on the roads at night, close behind\
the lines, the camion stopped a little off the road, an officer\
directing the light and the crew scared. We crossed the brickyard, and\
stopped at the main dressing station. There was a little shelter of\
green branches outside over the entrance and in the dark the night wind\
rustled the leaves dried by the sun. Inside there was a light. The major\
was at the telephone sitting on a box. One of the medical captains said\
the attack had been put forward an hour. He offered me a glass of\
cognac. I looked at the board tables, the instruments shining in the\
light, the basins and the stoppered bottles. Gordini stood behind me.\
The major got up from the telephone.\
\
\'93It starts now,\'94 he said. \'93It has been put back again.\'94\
\
I looked outside, it was dark and the Austrian search-lights were moving\
on the mountains behind us. It was quiet for a moment still, then from\
all the guns behind us the bombardment started.\
\
\'93Savoia,\'94 said the major.\
\
\'93About the soup, major,\'94 I said. He did not hear me. I repeated it.\
\
\'93It hasn\'92t come up.\'94\
\
A big shell came in and burst outside in the brickyard. Another burst\
and in the noise you could hear the smaller noise of the brick and dirt\
raining down.\
\
\'93What is there to eat?\'94\
\
\'93We have a little pasta asciutta,\'94 the major said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll take what you can give me.\'94\
\
The major spoke to an orderly who went out of sight in the back and came\
back with a metal basin of cold cooked macaroni. I handed it to Gordini.\
\
\'93Have you any cheese?\'94\
\
The major spoke grudgingly to the orderly who ducked back into the hole\
again and came out with a quarter of a white cheese.\
\
\'93Thank you very much,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You\'92d better not go out.\'94\
\
Outside something was set down beside the entrance. One of the two men\
who had carried it looked in.\
\
\'93Bring him in,\'94 said the major. \'93What\'92s the matter with you? Do you want\
us to come outside and get him?\'94\
\
The two stretcher-bearers picked up the man under the arms and by the\
legs and brought him in.\
\
\'93Slit the tunic,\'94 the major said.\
\
He held a forceps with some gauze in the end. The two captains took off\
their coats. \'93Get out of here,\'94 the major said to the two\
stretcher-bearers.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 I said to Gordini.\
\
\'93You better wait until the shelling is over,\'94 the major said over his\
shoulder.\
\
\'93They want to eat,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93As you wish.\'94\
\
Outside we ran across the brickyard. A shell burst short near the river\
bank. Then there was one that we did not hear coming until the sudden\
rush. We both went flat and with the flash and bump of the burst and the\
smell heard the singing off of the fragments and the rattle of falling\
brick. Gordini got up and ran for the dugout. I was after him, holding\
the cheese, its smooth surface covered with brick dust. Inside the\
dugout were the three drivers sitting against the wall, smoking.\
\
\'93Here, you patriots,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93How are the cars?\'94 Manera asked.\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Did they scare you, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re damned right,\'94 I said.\
\
I took out my knife, opened it, wiped off the blade and pared off the\
dirty outside surface of the cheese. Gavuzzi handed me the basin of\
macaroni.\
\
\'93Start in to eat, Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93Put it on the floor. We\'92ll all eat.\'94\
\
\'93There are no forks.\'94\
\
\'93What the hell,\'94 I said in English.\
\
I cut the cheese into pieces and laid them on the macaroni.\
\
\'93Sit down to it,\'94 I said. They sat down and waited. I put thumb and\
fingers into the macaroni and lifted. A mass loosened.\
\
\'93Lift it high, Tenente.\'94\
\
I lifted it to arm\'92s length and the strands cleared. I lowered it into\
the mouth, sucked and snapped in the ends, and chewed, then took a bite\
of cheese, chewed, and then a drink of the wine. It tasted of rusty\
metal. I handed the canteen back to Passini.\
\
\'93It\'92s rotten,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s been in there too long. I had it in the\
car.\'94\
\
They were all eating, holding their chins close over the basin, tipping\
their heads back, sucking in the ends. I took another mouthful and some\
cheese and a rinse of wine. Something landed outside that shook the\
earth.\
\
\'93Four hundred twenty or minnenwerfer,\'94 Gavuzzi said.\
\
\'93There aren\'92t any four hundred twenties in the mountains,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93They have big Skoda guns. I\'92ve seen the holes.\'94\
\
\'93Three hundred fives.\'94\
\
We went on eating. There was a cough, a noise like a railway engine\
starting and then an explosion that shook the earth again.\
\
\'93This isn\'92t a deep dugout,\'94 Passini said.\
\
\'93That was a big trench-mortar.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, sir.\'94\
\
I ate the end of my piece of cheese and took a swallow of wine. Through\
the other noise I heard a cough, then came the chuh-chuh-chuh-chuh\'97then\
there was a flash, as when a blast-furnace door is swung open, and a\
roar that started white and went red and on and on in a rushing wind. I\
tried to breathe but my breath would not come and I felt myself rush\
bodily out of myself and out and out and out and all the time bodily in\
the wind. I went out swiftly, all of myself, and I knew I was dead and\
that it had all been a mistake to think you just died. Then I floated,\
and instead of going on I felt myself slide back. I breathed and I was\
back. The ground was torn up and in front of my head there was a\
splintered beam of wood. In the jolt of my head I heard somebody crying.\
I thought somebody was screaming. I tried to move but I could not move.\
I heard the machine-guns and rifles firing across the river and all\
along the river. There was a great splashing and I saw the star-shells\
go up and burst and float whitely and rockets going up and heard the\
bombs, all this in a moment, and then I heard close to me some one\
saying \'93Mama Mia! Oh, mama Mia!\'94 I pulled and twisted and got my legs\
loose finally and turned around and touched him. It was Passini and when\
I touched him he screamed. His legs were toward me and I saw in the dark\
and the light that they were both smashed above the knee. One leg was\
gone and the other was held by tendons and part of the trouser and the\
stump twitched and jerked as though it were not connected. He bit his\
arm and moaned, \'93Oh mama mia, mama Mia,\'94 then, \'93Dio te salve, Maria. Dio\
te salve, Maria. Oh Jesus shoot me Christ shoot me mama mia mama Mia oh\
purest lovely Mary shoot me. Stop it. Stop it. Stop it. Oh Jesus lovely\
Mary stop it. Oh oh oh oh,\'94 then choking, \'93Mama mama mia.\'94 Then he was\
quiet, biting his arm, the stump of his leg twitching.\
\
\'93Porta feriti!\'94 I shouted holding my hands cupped. \'93Porta Feriti!\'94 I\
tried to get closer to Passini to try to put a tourniquet on the legs\
but I could not move. I tried again and my legs moved a little. I could\
pull backward along with my arms and elbows. Passini was quiet now. I\
sat beside him, undid my tunic and tried to rip the tail of my shirt. It\
would not rip and I bit the edge of the cloth to start it. Then I\
thought of his puttees. I had on wool stockings but Passini wore\
puttees. All the drivers wore puttees but Passini had only one leg. I\
unwound the puttee and while I was doing it I saw there was no need to\
try and make a tourniquet because he was dead already. I made sure he\
was dead. There were three others to locate. I sat up straight and as I\
did so something inside my head moved like the weights on a doll\'92s eyes\
and it hit me inside in back of my eyeballs. My legs felt warm and wet\
and my shoes were wet and warm inside. I knew that I was hit and leaned\
over and put my hand on my knee. My knee wasn\'92t there. My hand went in\
and my knee was down on my shin. I wiped my hand on my shirt and another\
floating light came very slowly down and I looked at my leg and was very\
afraid. Oh, God, I said, get me out of here. I knew, however, that there\
had been three others. There were four drivers. Passini was dead. That\
left three. Some one took hold of me under the arms and somebody else\
lifted my legs.\
\
\'93There are three others,\'94 I said. \'93One is dead.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s Manera. We went for a stretcher but there wasn\'92t any. How are you,\
Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93Where is Gordini and Gavuzzi?\'94\
\
\'93Gordini\'92s at the post getting bandaged. Gavuzzi has your legs. Hold on\
to my neck, Tenente. Are you badly hit?\'94\
\
\'93In the leg. How is Gordini?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s all right. It was a big trench-mortar shell.\'94\
\
\'93Passini\'92s dead.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. He\'92s dead.\'94\
\
A shell fell close and they both dropped to the ground and dropped me.\
\'93I\'92m sorry, Tenente,\'94 said Manera. \'93Hang onto my neck.\'94\
\
\'93If you drop me again.\'94\
\
\'93It was because we were scared.\'94\
\
\'93Are you unwounded?\'94\
\
\'93We are both wounded a little.\'94\
\
\'93Can Gordini drive?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so.\'94\
\
They dropped me once more before we reached the post.\
\
\'93You sons of bitches,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I am sorry, Tenente,\'94 Manera said. \'93We won\'92t drop you again.\'94\
\
Outside the post a great many of us lay on the ground in the dark. They\
carried wounded in and brought them out. I could see the light come out\
from the dressing station when the curtain opened and they brought some\
one in or out. The dead were off to one side. The doctors were working\
with their sleeves up to their shoulders and were red as butchers. There\
were not enough stretchers. Some of the wounded were noisy but most were\
quiet. The wind blew the leaves in the bower over the door of the\
dressing station and the night was getting cold. Stretcher-bearers came\
in all the time, put their stretchers down, unloaded them and went away.\
As soon as I got to the dressing station Manera brought a medical\
sergeant out and he put bandages on both my legs. He said there was so\
much dirt blown into the wound that there had not been much hemorrhage.\
They would take me as soon as possible. He went back inside. Gordini\
could not drive, Manera said. His shoulder was smashed and his head was\
hurt. He had not felt bad but now the shoulder had stiffened. He was\
sitting up beside one of the brick walls. Manera and Gavuzzi each went\
off with a load of wounded. They could drive all right. The British had\
come with three ambulances and they had two men on each ambulance. One\
of their drivers came over to me, brought by Gordini who looked very\
white and sick. The Britisher leaned over.\
\
\'93Are you hit badly?\'94 he asked. He was a tall man and wore steel-rimmed\
spectacles.\
\
\'93In the legs.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not serious I hope. Will you have a cigarette?\'94\
\
\'93Thanks.\'94\
\
\'93They tell me you\'92ve lost two drivers.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. One killed and the fellow that brought you.\'94\
\
\'93What rotten luck. Would you like us to take the cars?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s what I wanted to ask you.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92d take quite good care of them and return them to the Villa. 206\
aren\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a charming place. I\'92ve seen you about. They tell me you\'92re an\
American.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m English.\'94\
\
\'93No!\'94\
\
\'93Yes, English. Did you think I was Italian? There were some Italians\
with one of our units.\'94\
\
\'93It would be fine if you would take the cars,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93We\'92ll be most careful of them,\'94 he straightened up. \'93This chap of yours\
was very anxious for me to see you.\'94 He patted Gordini on the shoulder.\
Gordini winced and smiled. The Englishman broke into voluble and perfect\
Italian. \'93Now everything is arranged. I\'92ve seen your Tenente. We will\
take over the two cars. You won\'92t worry now.\'94 He broke off, \'93I must do\
something about getting you out of here. I\'92ll see the medical wallahs.\
We\'92ll take you back with us.\'94\
\
He walked across to the dressing station, stepping carefully among the\
wounded. I saw the blanket open, the light came out and he went in.\
\
\'93He will look after you, Tenente,\'94 Gordini said.\
\
\'93How are you, Franco?\'94\
\
\'93I am all right.\'94 He sat down beside me. In a moment the blanket in\
front of the dressing station opened and two stretcher-bearers came out\
followed by the tall Englishman. He brought them over to me.\
\
\'93Here is the American Tenente,\'94 he said in Italian.\
\
\'93I\'92d rather wait,\'94 I said. \'93There are much worse wounded than me. I\'92m\
all right.\'94\
\
\'93Come come,\'94 he said. \'93Don\'92t be a bloody hero.\'94 Then in Italian: \'93Lift\
him very carefully about the legs. His legs are very painful. He is the\
legitimate son of President Wilson.\'94 They picked me up and took me into\
the dressing room. Inside they were operating on all the tables. The\
little major looked at us furious. He recognized me and waved a forceps.\
\
\'93\'c7a va bien?\'94\
\
\'93\'c7a va.\'94\
\
\'93I have brought him in,\'94 the tall Englishman said in Italian. \'93The only\
son of the American Ambassador. He can be here until you are ready to\
take him. Then I will take him with my first load.\'94 He bent over me.\
\'93I\'92ll look up their adjutant to do your papers and it will all go much\
faster.\'94 He stooped to go under the doorway and went out. The major was\
unhooking the forceps now, dropping them in a basin. I followed his\
hands with my eyes. Now he was bandaging. Then the stretcher-bearers\
took the man off the table.\
\
\'93I\'92ll take the American Tenente,\'94 one of the captains said. They lifted\
me onto the table. It was hard and slippery. There were many strong\
smells, chemical smells and the sweet smell of blood. They took off my\
trousers and the medical captain commenced dictating to the\
sergeant-adjutant while he worked, \'93Multiple superficial wounds of the\
left and right thigh and left and right knee and right foot. Profound\
wounds of right knee and foot. Lacerations of the scalp (he probed\'97Does\
that hurt?\'97Christ, yes!) with possible fracture of the skull. Incurred\
in the line of duty. That\'92s what keeps you from being court-martialled\
for self-inflicted wounds,\'94 he said. \'93Would you like a drink of brandy?\
How did you run into this thing anyway? What were you trying to do?\
Commit suicide? Anti-tetanus please, and mark a cross on both legs.\
Thank you. I\'92ll clean this up a little, wash it out, and put on a\
dressing. Your blood coagulates beautifully.\'94\
\
The adjutant, looking up from the paper, \'93What inflicted the wounds?\'94\
\
The medical captain, \'93What hit you?\'94\
\
Me, with the eyes shut, \'93A trench mortar shell.\'94\
\
The captain, doing things that hurt sharply and severing tissue\'97\'93Are\
you sure?\'94\
\
Me\'97trying to lie still and feeling my stomach flutter when the flesh\
was cut, \'93I think so.\'94\
\
Captain doctor\'97(interested in something he was finding), \'93Fragments of\
enemy trench-mortar shell. Now I\'92ll probe for some of this if you like\
but it\'92s not necessary. I\'92ll paint all this and\'97Does that sting? Good,\
that\'92s nothing to how it will feel later. The pain hasn\'92t started yet.\
Bring him a glass of brandy. The shock dulls the pain; but this is all\
right, you have nothing to worry about if it doesn\'92t infect and it\
rarely does now. How is your head?\'94\
\
\'93Good Christ!\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Better not drink too much brandy then. If you\'92ve got a fracture you\
don\'92t want inflammation. How does that feel?\'94\
\
Sweat ran all over me.\
\
\'93Good Christ!\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I guess you\'92ve got a fracture all right. I\'92ll wrap you up and don\'92t\
bounce your head around.\'94 He bandaged, his hands moving very fast and\
the bandage coming taut and sure. \'93All right, good luck and Vive la\
France.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s an American,\'94 one of the other captains said.\
\
\'93I thought you said he was a Frenchman. He talks French,\'94 the captain\
said. \'93I\'92ve known him before. I always thought he was French.\'94 He drank\
a half tumbler of cognac. \'93Bring on something serious. Get some more of\
that Anti-tetanus.\'94 The captain waved to me. They lifted me and the\
blanket-flap went across my face as we went out. Outside the\
sergeant-adjutant knelt down beside me where I lay, \'93Name?\'94 he asked\
softly. \'93Middle name? First name? Rank? Where born? What class? What\
corps?\'94 and so on. \'93I\'92m sorry for your head, Tenente. I hope you feel\
better. I\'92m sending you now with the English ambulance.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m all right,\'94 I said. \'93Thank you very much.\'94 The pain that the major\
had spoken about had started and all that was happening was without\
interest or relation. After a while the English ambulance came up and\
they put me onto a stretcher and lifted the stretcher up to the\
ambulance level and shoved it in. There was another stretcher by the\
side with a man on it whose nose I could see, waxy-looking, out of the\
bandages. He breathed very heavily. There were stretchers lifted and\
slid into the slings above. The tall English driver came around and\
looked in, \'93I\'92ll take it very easily,\'94 he said. \'93I hope you\'92ll be\
comfy.\'94 I felt the engine start, felt him climb up into the front seat,\
felt the brake come off and the clutch go in, then we started. I lay\
still and let the pain ride.\
\
As the ambulance climbed along the road, it was slow in the traffic,\
sometimes it stopped, sometimes it backed on a turn, then finally it\
climbed quite fast. I felt something dripping. At first it dropped\
slowly and regularly, then it pattered into a stream. I shouted to the\
driver. He stopped the car and looked in through the hole behind his\
seat.\
\
\'93What is it?\'94\
\
\'93The man on the stretcher over me has a hemorrhage.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re not far from the top. I wouldn\'92t be able to get the stretcher out\
alone.\'94 He started the car. The stream kept on. In the dark I could not\
see where it came from the canvas overhead. I tried to move sideways so\
that it did not fall on me. Where it had run down under my shirt it was\
warm and sticky. I was cold and my leg hurt so that it made me sick.\
After a while the stream from the stretcher above lessened and started\
to drip again and I heard and felt the canvas above move as the man on\
the stretcher settled more comfortably.\
\
\'93How is he?\'94 the Englishman called back. \'93We\'92re almost up.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s dead I think,\'94 I said.\
\
The drops fell very slowly, as they fall from an icicle after the sun\
has gone. It was cold in the car in the night as the road climbed. At\
the post on the top they took the stretcher out and put another in and\
we went on.\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER X\
\
In the ward at the field hospital they told me a visitor was coming to\
see me in the afternoon. It was a hot day and there were many flies in\
the room. My orderly had cut paper into strips and tied the strips to a\
stick to make a brush that swished the flies away. I watched them settle\
on the ceiling. When he stopped swishing and fell asleep they came down\
and I blew them away and finally covered my face with my hands and slept\
too. It was very hot and when I woke my legs itched. I waked the orderly\
and he poured mineral water on the dressings. That made the bed damp and\
cool. Those of us that were awake talked across the ward. The afternoon\
was a quiet time. In the morning they came to each bed in turn, three\
men nurses and a doctor and picked you up out of bed and carried you\
into the dressing room so that the beds could be made while we were\
having our wounds dressed. It was not a pleasant trip to the dressing\
room and I did not know until later that beds could be made with men in\
them. My orderly had finished pouring water and the bed felt cool and\
lovely and I was telling him where to scratch on the soles of my feet\
against the itching when one of the doctors brought in Rinaldi. He came\
in very fast and bent down over the bed and kissed me. I saw he wore\
gloves.\
\
\'93How are you, baby? How do you feel? I bring you this\'97\'94 It was a bottle\
of cognac. The orderly brought a chair and he sat down, \'93and good news.\
You will be decorated. They want to get you the medaglia d\'92argento but\
perhaps they can get only the bronze.\'94\
\
\'93What for?\'94\
\
\'93Because you are gravely wounded. They say if you can prove you did any\
heroic act you can get the silver. Otherwise it will be the bronze. Tell\
me exactly what happened. Did you do any heroic act?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I was blown up while we were eating cheese.\'94\
\
\'93Be serious. You must have done something heroic either before or after.\
Remember carefully.\'94\
\
\'93I did not.\'94\
\
\'93Didn\'92t you carry anybody on your back? Gordini says you carried several\
people on your back but the medical major at the first post declares it\
is impossible. He has to sign the proposition for the citation.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t carry anybody. I couldn\'92t move.\'94\
\
\'93That doesn\'92t matter,\'94 said Rinaldi.\
\
He took off his gloves.\
\
\'93I think we can get you the silver. Didn\'92t you refuse to be medically\
aided before the others?\'94\
\
\'93Not very firmly.\'94\
\
\'93That doesn\'92t matter. Look how you are wounded. Look at your valorous\
conduct in asking to go always to the first line. Besides, the operation\
was successful.\'94\
\
\'93Did they cross the river all right?\'94\
\
\'93Enormously. They take nearly a thousand prisoners. It\'92s in the\
bulletin. Didn\'92t you see it?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll bring it to you. It is a successful coup de main.\'94\
\
\'93How is everything?\'94\
\
\'93Splendid. We are all splendid. Everybody is proud of you. Tell me just\
exactly how it happened. I am positive you will get the silver. Go on\
tell me. Tell me all about it.\'94 He paused and thought. \'93Maybe you will\
get an English medal too. There was an English there. I\'92ll go and see\
him and ask if he will recommend you. He ought to be able to do\
something. Do you suffer much? Have a drink. Orderly, go get a\
corkscrew. Oh you should see what I did in the removal of three metres\
of small intestine and better now than ever. It is one for _The Lancet_.\
You do me a translation and I will send it to _The Lancet_. Every day I\
am better. Poor dear baby, how do you feel? Where is that damn\
corkscrew? You are so brave and quiet I forget you are suffering.\'94 He\
slapped his gloves on the edge of the bed.\
\
\'93Here is the corkscrew, Signor Tenente,\'94 the orderly said.\
\
\'93Open the bottle. Bring a glass. Drink that, baby. How is your poor\
head? I looked at your papers. You haven\'92t any fracture. That major at\
the first post was a hog-butcher. I would take you and never hurt you. I\
never hurt anybody. I learn how to do it. Every day I learn to do things\
smoother and better. You must forgive me for talking so much, baby. I am\
very moved to see you badly wounded. There, drink that. It\'92s good. It\
cost fifteen lire. It ought to be good. Five stars. After I leave here\
I\'92ll go see that English and he\'92ll get you an English medal.\'94\
\
\'93They don\'92t give them like that.\'94\
\
\'93You are so modest. I will send the liaison officer. He can handle the\
English.\'94\
\
\'93Have you seen Miss Barkley?\'94\
\
\'93I will bring her here. I will go now and bring her here.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t go,\'94 I said. \'93Tell me about Gorizia. How are the girls?\'94\
\
\'93There are no girls. For two weeks now they haven\'92t changed them. I\
don\'92t go there any more. It is disgraceful. They aren\'92t girls; they are\
old war comrades.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t go at all?\'94\
\
\'93I just go to see if there is anything new. I stop by. They all ask for\
you. It is a disgrace that they should stay so long that they become\
friends.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe girls don\'92t want to go to the front any more.\'94\
\
\'93Of course they do. They have plenty of girls. It is just bad\
administration. They are keeping them for the pleasure of dugout hiders\
in the rear.\'94\
\
\'93Poor Rinaldi,\'94 I said. \'93All alone at the war with no new girls.\'94\
\
Rinaldi poured himself another glass of the cognac.\
\
\'93I don\'92t think it will hurt you, baby. You take it.\'94\
\
I drank the cognac and felt it warm all the way down. Rinaldi poured\
another glass. He was quieter now. He held up the glass. \'93To your\
valorous wounds. To the silver medal. Tell me, baby, when you lie here\
all the time in the hot weather don\'92t you get excited?\'94\
\
\'93Sometimes.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t imagine lying like that. I would go crazy.\'94\
\
\'93You are crazy.\'94\
\
\'93I wish you were back. No one to come in at night from adventures. No\
one to make fun of. No one to lend me money. No blood brother and\
roommate. Why do you get yourself wounded?\'94\
\
\'93You can make fun of the priest.\'94\
\
\'93That priest. It isn\'92t me that makes fun of him. It is the captain. I\
like him. If you must have a priest have that priest. He\'92s coming to see\
you. He makes big preparations.\'94\
\
\'93I like him.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I knew it. Sometimes I think you and he are a little that way. You\
know.\'94\
\
\'93No, you don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I do sometimes. A little that way like the number of the first\
regiment of the Brigata Ancona.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, go to hell.\'94\
\
He stood up and put on his gloves.\
\
\'93Oh I love to tease you, baby. With your priest and your English girl,\
and really you are just like me underneath.\'94\
\
\'93No, I\'92m not.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, we are. You are really an Italian. All fire and smoke and nothing\
inside. You only pretend to be American. We are brothers and we love\
each other.\'94\
\
\'93Be good while I\'92m gone,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I will send Miss Barkley. You are better with her without me. You are\
purer and sweeter.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, go to hell.\'94\
\
\'93I will send her. Your lovely cool goddess. English goddess. My God what\
would a man do with a woman like that except worship her? What else is\
an Englishwoman good for?\'94\
\
\'93You are an ignorant foul-mouthed dago.\'94\
\
\'93A what?\'94\
\
\'93An ignorant wop.\'94\
\
\'93Wop. You are a frozen-faced ... wop.\'94\
\
\'93You are ignorant. Stupid.\'94 I saw that word pricked him and kept on.\
\'93Uninformed. Inexperienced, stupid from inexperience.\'94\
\
\'93Truly? I tell you something about your good women. Your goddesses.\
There is only one difference between taking a girl who has always been\
good and a woman. With a girl it is painful. That\'92s all I know.\'94 He\
slapped the bed with his glove. \'93And you never know if the girl will\
really like it.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t get angry.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not angry. I just tell you, baby, for your own good. To save you\
trouble.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the only difference?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. But millions of fools like you don\'92t know it.\'94\
\
\'93You were sweet to tell me.\'94\
\
\'93We won\'92t quarrel, baby. I love you too much. But don\'92t be a fool.\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92ll be wise like you.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be angry, baby. Laugh. Take a drink. I must go, really.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a good old boy.\'94\
\
\'93Now you see. Underneath we are the same. We are war brothers. Kiss me\
good-by.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re sloppy.\'94\
\
\'93No. I am just more affectionate.\'94\
\
I felt his breath come toward me. \'93Good-by. I come to see you again\
soon.\'94 His breath went away. \'93I won\'92t kiss you if you don\'92t want. I\'92ll\
send your English girl. Good-by, baby. The cognac is under the bed. Get\
well soon.\'94\
\
He was gone.\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER XI\
\
It was dusk when the priest came. They had brought the soup and\
afterward taken away the bowls and I was lying looking at the rows of\
beds and out the window at the tree-top that moved a little in the\
evening breeze. The breeze came in through the window and it was cooler\
with the evening. The flies were on the ceiling now and on the electric\
light bulbs that hung on wires. The lights were only turned on when some\
one was brought in at night or when something was being done. It made me\
feel very young to have the dark come after the dusk and then remain. It\
was like being put to bed after early supper. The orderly came down\
between the beds and stopped. Some one was with him. It was the priest.\
He stood there small, brown-faced, and embarrassed.\
\
\'93How do you do?\'94 he asked. He put some packages down by the bed, on the\
floor.\
\
\'93All right, father.\'94\
\
He sat down in the chair that had been brought for Rinaldi and looked\
out of the window embarrassedly. I noticed his face looked very tired.\
\
\'93I can only stay a minute,\'94 he said. \'93It is late.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not late. How is the mess?\'94\
\
He smiled. \'93I am still a great joke,\'94 he sounded tired too. \'93Thank God\
they are all well.\'94\
\
\'93I am so glad you are all right,\'94 he said. \'93I hope you don\'92t suffer.\'94 He\
seemed very tired and I was not used to seeing him tired.\
\
\'93Not any more.\'94\
\
\'93I miss you at the mess.\'94\
\
\'93I wish I were there. I always enjoyed our talking.\'94\
\
\'93I brought you a few little things,\'94 he said. He picked up the packages.\
\'93This is mosquito netting. This is a bottle of vermouth. You like\
vermouth? These are English papers.\'94\
\
\'93Please open them.\'94\
\
He was pleased and undid them. I held the mosquito netting in my hands.\
The vermouth he held up for me to see and then put it on the floor\
beside the bed. I held up one of the sheaf of English papers. I could\
read the headlines by turning it so the half-light from the window was\
on it. It was the _News of the World_.\
\
\'93The others are illustrated,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93It will be a great happiness to read them. Where did you get them?\'94\
\
\'93I sent for them to Mestre. I will have more.\'94\
\
\'93You were very good to come, father. Will you drink a glass of\
vermouth?\'94\
\
\'93Thank you. You keep it. It\'92s for you.\'94\
\
\'93No, drink a glass.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I will bring you more then.\'94\
\
The orderly brought the glasses and opened the bottle. He broke off the\
cork and the end had to be shoved down into the bottle. I could see the\
priest was disappointed but he said, \'93That\'92s all right. It\'92s no matter.\'94\
\
\'93Here\'92s to your health, father.\'94\
\
\'93To your better health.\'94\
\
Afterward he held the glass in his hand and we looked at one another.\
Sometimes we talked and were good friends but to-night it was difficult.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, father? You seem very tired.\'94\
\
\'93I am tired but I have no right to be.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s the heat.\'94\
\
\'93No. This is only the Spring. I feel very low.\'94\
\
\'93You have the war disgust.\'94\
\
\'93No. But I hate the war.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t enjoy it,\'94 I said. He shook his head and looked out of the\
window.\
\
\'93You do not mind it. You do not see it. You must forgive me. I know you\
are wounded.\'94\
\
\'93That is an accident.\'94\
\
\'93Still even wounded you do not see it. I can tell. I do not see it\
myself but I feel it a little.\'94\
\
\'93When I was wounded we were talking about it. Passini was talking.\'94\
\
The priest put down the glass. He was thinking about something else.\
\
\'93I know them because I am like they are,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93You are different though.\'94\
\
\'93But really I am like they are.\'94\
\
\'93The officers don\'92t see anything.\'94\
\
\'93Some of them do. Some are very delicate and feel worse than any of us.\'94\
\
\'93They are mostly different.\'94\
\
\'93It is not education or money. It is something else. Even if they had\
education or money men like Passini would not wish to be officers. I\
would not be an officer.\'94\
\
\'93You rank as an officer. I am an officer.\'94\
\
\'93I am not really. You are not even an Italian. You are a foreigner. But\
you are nearer the officers than you are to the men.\'94\
\
\'93What is the difference?\'94\
\
\'93I cannot say it easily. There are people who would make war. In this\
country there are many like that. There are other people who would not\
make war.\'94\
\
\'93But the first ones make them do it.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93And I help them.\'94\
\
\'93You are a foreigner. You are a patriot.\'94\
\
\'93And the ones who would not make war? Can they stop it?\'94\
\
\'93I do not know.\'94\
\
He looked out of the window again. I watched his face.\
\
\'93Have they ever been able to stop it?\'94\
\
\'93They are not organized to stop things and when they get organized their\
leaders sell them out.\'94\
\
\'93Then it\'92s hopeless?\'94\
\
\'93It is never hopeless. But sometimes I cannot hope. I try always to hope\
but sometimes I cannot.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe the war will be over.\'94\
\
\'93I hope so.\'94\
\
\'93What will you do then?\'94\
\
\'93If it is possible I will return to the Abruzzi.\'94\
\
His brown face was suddenly very happy.\
\
\'93You love the Abruzzi!\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I love it very much.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to go there then.\'94\
\
\'93I would be too happy. If I could live there and love God and serve\
Him.\'94\
\
\'93And be respected,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes and be respected. Why not?\'94\
\
\'93No reason not. You should be respected.\'94\
\
\'93It does not matter. But there in my country it is understood that a man\
may love God. It is not a dirty joke.\'94\
\
\'93I understand.\'94\
\
He looked at me and smiled.\
\
\'93You understand but you do not love God.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93You do not love Him at all?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93I am afraid of him in the night sometimes.\'94\
\
\'93You should love Him.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t love much.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 he said. \'93You do. What you tell me about in the nights. That is\
not love. That is only passion and lust. When you love you wish to do\
things for. You wish to sacrifice for. You wish to serve.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t love.\'94\
\
\'93You will. I know you will. Then you will be happy.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m happy. I\'92ve always been happy.\'94\
\
\'93It is another thing. You cannot know about it unless you have it.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said. \'93If I ever get it I will tell you.\'94\
\
\'93I stay too long and talk too much.\'94 He was worried that he really did.\
\
\'93No. Don\'92t go. How about loving women? If I really loved some woman\
would it be like that?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know about that. I never loved any woman.\'94\
\
\'93What about your mother?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I must have loved my mother.\'94\
\
\'93Did you always love God?\'94\
\
\'93Ever since I was a little boy.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said. I did not know what to say. \'93You are a fine boy,\'94 I\
said.\
\
\'93I am a boy,\'94 he said. \'93But you call me father.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s politeness.\'94\
\
He smiled.\
\
\'93I must go, really,\'94 he said. \'93You do not want me for anything?\'94 he\
asked hopefully.\
\
\'93No. Just to talk.\'94\
\
\'93I will take your greetings to the mess.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you for the many fine presents.\'94\
\
\'93Nothing.\'94\
\
\'93Come and see me again.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Good-by,\'94 he patted my hand.\
\
\'93So long,\'94 I said in dialect.\
\
\'93Ciaou,\'94 he repeated.\
\
It was dark in the room and the orderly, who had sat by the foot of the\
bed, got up and went out with him. I liked him very much and I hoped he\
would get back to the Abruzzi some time. He had a rotten life in the\
mess and he was fine about it but I thought how he would be in his own\
country. At Capracotta, he had told me, there were trout in the stream\
below the town. It was forbidden to play the flute at night. When the\
young men serenaded only the flute was forbidden. Why, I had asked.\
Because it was bad for the girls to hear the flute at night. The\
peasants all called you \'93Don\'94 and when you met them they took off their\
hats. His father hunted every day and stopped to eat at the houses of\
peasants. They were always honored. For a foreigner to hunt he must\
present a certificate that he had never been arrested. There were bears\
on the Gran Sasso D\'92Italia but it was a long way. Aquila was a fine\
town. It was cool in the summer at night and the spring in Abruzzi was\
the most beautiful in Italy. But what was lovely was the fall to go\
hunting through the chestnut woods. The birds were all good because they\
fed on grapes and you never took a lunch because the peasants were\
always honored if you would eat with them at their houses. After a while\
I went to sleep.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XII\
\
The room was long with windows on the right-hand side and a door at the\
far end that went into the dressing room. The row of beds that mine was\
in faced the windows and another row, under the windows, faced the wall.\
If you lay on your left side you could see the dressing room door. There\
was another door at the far end that people sometimes came in by. If any\
one were going to die they put a screen around the bed so you could not\
see them die, but only the shoes and puttees of doctors and men nurses\
showed under the bottom of the screen and sometimes at the end there\
would be whispering. Then the priest would come out from behind the\
screen and afterward the men nurses would go back behind the screen to\
come out again carrying the one who was dead with a blanket over him\
down the corridor between the beds and some one folded the screen and\
took it away.\
\
That morning the major in charge of the ward asked me if I felt that I\
could travel the next day. I said I could. He said then they would ship\
me out early in the morning. He said I would be better off making the\
trip now before it got too hot.\
\
When they lifted you up out of bed to carry you into the dressing room\
you could look out of the window and see the new graves in the garden. A\
soldier sat outside the door that opened onto the garden making crosses\
and painting on them the names, rank, and regiment of the men who were\
buried in the garden. He also ran errands for the ward and in his spare\
time made me a cigarette lighter out of an empty Austrian rifle\
cartridge. The doctors were very nice and seemed very capable. They were\
anxious to ship me to Milan where there were better X-ray facilities and\
where, after the operation, I could take mechano-therapy. I wanted to go\
to Milan too. They wanted to get us all out and back as far as possible\
because all the beds were needed for the offensive, when it should\
start.\
\
The night before I left the field hospital Rinaldi came in to see me\
with the major from our mess. They said that I would go to an American\
hospital in Milan that had just been installed. Some American ambulance\
units were to be sent down and this hospital would look after them and\
any other Americans on service in Italy. There were many in the Red\
Cross. The States had declared war on Germany but not on Austria.\
\
The Italians were sure America would declare war on Austria too and they\
were very excited about any Americans coming down, even the Red Cross.\
They asked me if I thought President Wilson would declare war on Austria\
and I said it was only a matter of days. I did not know what we had\
against Austria but it seemed logical that they should declare war on\
her if they did on Germany. They asked me if we would declare war on\
Turkey. I said that was doubtful. Turkey, I said, was our national bird\
but the joke translated so badly and they were so puzzled and suspicious\
that I said yes, we would probably declare war on Turkey. And on\
Bulgaria? We had drunk several glasses of brandy and I said yes by God\
on Bulgaria too and on Japan. But, they said, Japan is an ally of\
England. You can\'92t trust the bloody English. The Japanese want Hawaii, I\
said. Where is Hawaii? It is in the Pacific Ocean. Why do the Japanese\
want it? They don\'92t really want it, I said. That is all talk. The\
Japanese are a wonderful little people fond of dancing and light wines.\
Like the French, said the major. We will get Nice and Savoia from the\
French. We will get Corsica and all the Adriatic coast-line, Rinaldi\
said. Italy will return to the splendors of Rome, said the major. I\
don\'92t like Rome, I said. It is hot and full of fleas. You don\'92t like\
Rome? Yes, I love Rome. Rome is the mother of nations. I will never\
forget Romulus suckling the Tiber. What? Nothing. Let\'92s all go to Rome.\
Let\'92s go to Rome to-night and never come back. Rome is a beautiful city,\
said the major. The mother and father of nations, I said. Roma is\
feminine, said Rinaldi. It cannot be the father. Who is the father,\
then, the Holy Ghost? Don\'92t blaspheme. I wasn\'92t blaspheming, I was\
asking for information. You are drunk, baby. Who made me drunk? I made\
you drunk, said the major. I made you drunk because I love you and\
because America is in the war. Up to the hilt, I said. You go away in\
the morning, baby, Rinaldi said. To Rome, I said. No, to Milan. To\
Milan, said the major, to the Crystal Palace, to the Cova, to Campari\'92s,\
to Biffi\'92s, to the galleria. You lucky boy. To the Gran Italia I said,\
where I will borrow money from George. To the Scala, said Rinaldi. You\
will go to the Scala. Every night, I said. You won\'92t be able to afford\
it every night, said the major.\
\
The tickets are very expensive. I will draw a sight draft on my\
grandfather, I said. A what? A sight draft. He has to pay or I go to\
jail. Mr. Cunningham at the bank does it. I live by sight drafts. Can a\
grandfather jail a patriotic grandson who is dying that Italy may live?\
Live the American Garibaldi, said Rinaldi. Viva the sight drafts, I\
said. We must be quiet, said the major. Already we have been asked many\
times to be quiet. Do you go to-morrow really, Federico? He goes to the\
American hospital I tell you, Rinaldi said. To the beautiful nurses. Not\
the nurses with beards of the field hospital. Yes, yes, said the major,\
I know he goes to the American hospital. I don\'92t mind their beards, I\
said. If any man wants to raise a beard let him. Why don\'92t you raise a\
beard, Signor Maggiore? It could not go in a gas mask. Yes it could.\
Anything can go in a gas mask. I\'92ve vomited into a gas mask. Don\'92t be so\
loud, baby, Rinaldi said. We all know you have been at the front. Oh,\
you fine baby, what will I do while you are gone? We must go, said the\
major. This becomes sentimental. Listen, I have a surprise for you. Your\
English. You know? The English you go to see every night at their\
hospital? She is going to Milan too. She goes with another to be at the\
American hospital. They had not got nurses yet from America. I talked\
to-day with the head of their riparto. They have too many women here at\
the front. They send some back. How do you like that, baby? All right.\
Yes? You go to live in a big city and have your English there to cuddle\
you. Why don\'92t I get wounded? Maybe you will, I said. We must go, said\
the major. We drink and make noise and disturb Federico. Don\'92t go. Yes,\
we must go. Good-by. Good luck. Many things. Ciaou. Ciaou. Ciaou. Come\
back quickly, baby. Rinaldi kissed me. You smell of lysol. Good-by,\
baby. Good-by. Many things. The major patted my shoulder. They tiptoed\
out. I found I was quite drunk but went to sleep.\
\
\
\
The next day in the morning we left for Milan and arrived forty-eight\
hours later. It was a bad trip. We were sidetracked for a long time this\
side of Mestre and children came and peeked in. I got a little boy to go\
for a bottle of cognac but he came back and said he could only get\
grappa. I told him to get it and when it came I gave him the change and\
the man beside me and I got drunk and slept until past Vicenza where I\
woke up and was very sick on the floor. It did not matter because the\
man on that side had been very sick on the floor several times before.\
Afterward I thought I could not stand the thirst and in the yards\
outside of Verona I called to a soldier who was walking up and down\
beside the train and he got me a drink of water. I woke Georgetti, the\
other boy who was drunk, and offered him some water. He said to pour it\
on his shoulder and went back to sleep. The soldier would not take the\
penny I offered him and brought me a pulpy orange. I sucked on that and\
spit out the pith and watched the soldier pass up and down past a\
freight-car outside and after a while the train gave a jerk and started.\
\
\
\
\
                                BOOK II\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XIII\
\
We got into Milan early in the morning and they unloaded us in the\
freight yard. An ambulance took me to the American hospital. Riding in\
the ambulance on a stretcher I could not tell what part of town we were\
passing through but when they unloaded the stretcher I saw a\
market-place and an open wine shop with a girl sweeping out. They were\
watering the street and it smelled of the early morning. They put the\
stretcher down and went in. The porter came out with them. He had gray\
mustaches, wore a doorman\'92s cap and was in his shirt sleeves. The\
stretcher would not go into the elevator and they discussed whether it\
was better to lift me off the stretcher and go up in the elevator or\
carry the stretcher up the stairs. I listened to them discussing it.\
They decided on the elevator. They lifted me from the stretcher. \'93Go\
easy,\'94 I said. \'93Take it softly.\'94\
\
In the elevator we were crowded and as my legs bent the pain was very\
bad. \'93Straighten out the legs,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93We can\'92t, Signor Tenente. There isn\'92t room.\'94 The man who said this had\
his arm around me and my arm was around his neck. His breath came in my\
face metallic with garlic and red wine.\
\
\'93Be gentle,\'94 the other man said.\
\
\'93Son of a bitch who isn\'92t gentle!\'94\
\
\'93Be gentle I say,\'94 the man with my feet repeated.\
\
I saw the doors of the elevator closed, and the grill shut and the\
fourth-floor button pushed by the porter. The porter looked worried. The\
elevator rose slowly.\
\
\'93Heavy?\'94 I asked the man with the garlic.\
\
\'93Nothing,\'94 he said. His face was sweating and he grunted. The elevator\
rose steadily and stopped. The man holding the feet opened the door and\
stepped out. We were on a balcony. There were several doors with brass\
knobs. The man carrying the feet pushed a button that rang a bell. We\
heard it inside the doors. No one came. Then the porter came up the\
stairs.\
\
\'93Where are they?\'94 the stretcher-bearers asked.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 said the porter. \'93They sleep down stairs.\'94\
\
\'93Get somebody.\'94\
\
The porter rang the bell, then knocked on the door, then he opened the\
door and went in. When he came back there was an elderly woman wearing\
glasses with him. Her hair was loose and half-falling and she wore a\
nurse\'92s dress.\
\
\'93I can\'92t understand,\'94 she said. \'93I can\'92t understand Italian.\'94\
\
\'93I can speak English,\'94 I said. \'93They want to put me somewhere.\'94\
\
\'93None of the rooms are ready. There isn\'92t any patient expected.\'94 She\
tucked at her hair and looked at me near-sightedly.\
\
\'93Show them any room where they can put me.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 she said. \'93There\'92s no patient expected. I couldn\'92t put\
you in just any room.\'94\
\
\'93Any room will do,\'94 I said. Then to the porter in Italian, \'93Find an\
empty room.\'94\
\
\'93They are all empty,\'94 said the porter. \'93You are the first patient.\'94 He\
held his cap in his hand and looked at the elderly nurse.\
\
\'93For Christ\'92s sweet sake take me to some room.\'94 The pain had gone on and\
on with the legs bent and I could feel it going in and out of the bone.\
The porter went in the door, followed by the gray-haired woman, then\
came hurrying back. \'93Follow me,\'94 he said. They carried me down a long\
hallway and into a room with drawn blinds. It smelled of new furniture.\
There was a bed and a big wardrobe with a mirror. They laid me down on\
the bed.\
\
\'93I can\'92t put on sheets,\'94 the woman said. \'93The sheets are locked up.\'94\
\
I did not speak to her. \'93There is money in my pocket,\'94 I said to the\
porter. \'93In the buttoned-down pocket.\'94 The porter took out the money.\
The two stretcher-bearers stood beside the bed holding their caps. \'93Give\
them five lire apiece and five lire for yourself. My papers are in the\
other pocket. You may give them to the nurse.\'94\
\
The stretcher-bearers saluted and said thank you. \'93Good-by,\'94 I said.\
\'93And many thanks.\'94 They saluted again and went out.\
\
\'93Those papers,\'94 I said to the nurse, \'93describe my case and the treatment\
already given.\'94\
\
The woman picked them up and looked at them through her glasses. There\
were three papers and they were folded. \'93I don\'92t know what to do,\'94 she\
said. \'93I can\'92t read Italian. I can\'92t do anything without the doctor\'92s\
orders.\'94 She commenced to cry and put the papers in her apron pocket.\
\'93Are you an American?\'94 she asked crying.\
\
\'93Yes. Please put the papers on the table by the bed.\'94\
\
It was dim and cool in the room. As I lay on the bed I could see the big\
mirror on the other side of the room but could not see what it\
reflected. The porter stood by the bed. He had a nice face and was very\
kind.\
\
\'93You can go,\'94 I said to him. \'93You can go too,\'94 I said to the nurse.\
\'93What is your name?\'94\
\
\'93Mrs. Walker.\'94\
\
\'93You can go, Mrs. Walker. I think I will go to sleep.\'94\
\
I was alone in the room. It was cool and did not smell like a hospital.\
The mattress was firm and comfortable and I lay without moving, hardly\
breathing, happy in feeling the pain lessen. After a while I wanted a\
drink of water and found the bell on a cord by the bed and rang it but\
nobody came. I went to sleep.\
\
When I woke I looked around. There was sunlight coming in through the\
shutters. I saw the big armoire, the bare walls, and two chairs. My legs\
in the dirty bandages, stuck straight out in the bed. I was careful not\
to move them. I was thirsty and I reached for the bell and pushed the\
button. I heard the door open and looked and it was a nurse. She looked\
young and pretty.\
\
\'93Good-morning,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Good-morning,\'94 she said and came over to the bed. \'93We haven\'92t been able\
to get the doctor. He\'92s gone to Lake Como. No one knew there was a\
patient coming. What\'92s wrong with you anyway?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m wounded. In the legs and feet and my head is hurt.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s your name?\'94\
\
\'93Henry. Frederic Henry.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll wash you up. But we can\'92t do anything to the dressings until the\
doctor comes.\'94\
\
\'93Is Miss Barkley here?\'94\
\
\'93No. There\'92s no one by that name here.\'94\
\
\'93Who was the woman who cried when I came in?\'94\
\
The nurse laughed. \'93That\'92s Mrs. Walker. She was on night duty and she\'92d\
been asleep. She wasn\'92t expecting any one.\'94\
\
While we were talking she was undressing me, and when I was undressed,\
except for the bandages, she washed me, very gently and smoothly. The\
washing felt very good. There was a bandage on my head but she washed\
all around the edge.\
\
\'93Where were you wounded?\'94\
\
\'93On the Isonzo north of Plava.\'94\
\
\'93Where is that?\'94\
\
\'93North of Gorizia.\'94\
\
I could see that none of the places meant anything to her.\
\
\'93Do you have a lot of pain?\'94\
\
\'93No. Not much now.\'94\
\
She put a thermometer in my mouth.\
\
\'93The Italians put it under the arm,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk.\'94\
\
When she took the thermometer out she read it and then shook it.\
\
\'93What\'92s the temperature?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re not supposed to know that.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me what it is.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s almost normal.\'94\
\
\'93I never have any fever. My legs are full of old iron too.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re full of trench-mortar fragments, old screws and bed-springs and\
things.\'94\
\
She shook her head and smiled.\
\
\'93If you had any foreign bodies in your legs they would set up an\
inflammation and you\'92d have fever.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93We\'92ll see what comes out.\'94\
\
She went out of the room and came back with the old nurse of the early\
morning. Together they made the bed with me in it. That was new to me\
and an admirable proceeding.\
\
\'93Who is in charge here?\'94\
\
\'93Miss Van Campen.\'94\
\
\'93How many nurses are there?\'94\
\
\'93Just us two.\'94\
\
\'93Won\'92t there be more?\'94\
\
\'93Some more are coming.\'94\
\
\'93When will they get here?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. You ask a great many questions for a sick boy.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not sick,\'94 I said, \'93I\'92m wounded.\'94\
\
They had finished making the bed and I lay with a clean smooth sheet\
under me and another sheet over me. Mrs. Walker went out and came back\
with a pajama jacket. They put that on me and I felt very clean and\
dressed.\
\
\'93You\'92re awfully nice to me,\'94 I said. The nurse called Miss Gage giggled.\
\'93Could I have a drink of water?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Certainly. Then you can have breakfast.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want breakfast. Can I have the shutters opened please?\'94\
\
The light had been dim in the room and when the shutters were opened it\
was bright sunlight and I looked out on a balcony and beyond were the\
tile roofs of houses and chimneys. I looked out over the tiled roofs and\
saw white clouds and the sky very blue.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you know when the other nurses are coming?\'94\
\
\'93Why? Don\'92t we take good care of you?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re very nice.\'94\
\
\'93Would you like to use the bedpan?\'94\
\
\'93I might try.\'94\
\
They helped me and held me up but it was not any use. Afterward I lay\
and looked out the open doors onto the balcony.\
\
\'93When does the doctor come?\'94\
\
\'93When he gets back. We\'92ve tried to telephone to Lake Como for him.\'94\
\
\'93Aren\'92t there any other doctors?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s the doctor for the hospital.\'94\
\
Miss Gage brought a pitcher of water and a glass. I drank three glasses\
and then they left me and I looked out the window a while and went back\
to sleep. I ate some lunch and in the afternoon Miss Van Campen, the\
superintendent, came up to see me. She did not like me and I did not\
like her. She was small and neatly suspicious and too good for her\
position. She asked many questions and seemed to think it was somewhat\
disgraceful that I was with the Italians.\
\
\'93Can I have wine with the meals?\'94 I asked her.\
\
\'93Only if the doctor prescribes it.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t have it until he comes?\'94\
\
\'93Absolutely not.\'94\
\
\'93You plan on having him come eventually?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve telephoned him at Lake Como.\'94\
\
She went out and Miss Gage came back.\
\
\'93Why were you rude to Miss Van Campen?\'94 she asked after she had done\
something for me very skilfully.\
\
\'93I didn\'92t mean to be. But she was snooty.\'94\
\
\'93She said you were domineering and rude.\'94\
\
\'93I wasn\'92t. But what\'92s the idea of a hospital without a doctor?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s coming. They\'92ve telephoned for him to Lake Como.\'94\
\
\'93What does he do there? Swim?\'94\
\
\'93No. He has a clinic there.\'94\
\
\'93Why don\'92t they get another doctor?\'94\
\
\'93Hush. Hush. Be a good boy and he\'92ll come.\'94\
\
I sent for the porter and when he came I told him in Italian to get me a\
bottle of Cinzano at the wine shop, a fiasco of chianti and the evening\
papers. He went away and brought them wrapped in newspaper, unwrapped\
them and, when I asked him to, drew the corks and put the wine and\
vermouth under the bed. They left me alone and I lay in bed and read the\
papers awhile, the news from the front, and the list of dead officers\
with their decorations and then reached down and brought up the bottle\
of Cinzano and held it straight up on my stomach, the cool glass against\
my stomach, and took little drinks making rings on my stomach from\
holding the bottle there between drinks, and watched it get dark outside\
over the roofs of the town. The swallows circled around and I watched\
them and the night-hawks flying above the roofs and drank the Cinzano.\
Miss Gage brought up a glass with some egg-nog in it. I lowered the\
vermouth bottle to the other side of the bed when she came in.\
\
\'93Miss Van Campen had some sherry put in this,\'94 she said. \'93You shouldn\'92t\
be rude to her. She\'92s not young and this hospital is a big\
responsibility for her. Mrs. Walker\'92s too old and she\'92s no use to her.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s a splendid woman,\'94 I said. \'93Thank her very much.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to bring your supper right away.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all right,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m not hungry.\'94\
\
When she brought the tray and put it on the bed table I thanked her and\
ate a little of the supper. Afterward it was dark outside and I could\
see the beams of the search-lights moving in the sky. I watched for a\
while and then went to sleep. I slept heavily except once I woke\
sweating and scared and then went back to sleep trying to stay outside\
of my dream. I woke for good long before it was light and heard roosters\
crowing and stayed on awake until it began to be light. I was tired and\
once it was really light I went back to sleep again.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XIV\
\
It was bright sunlight in the room when I woke. I thought I was back at\
the front and stretched out in bed. My legs hurt me and I looked down at\
them still in the dirty bandages, and seeing them knew where I was. I\
reached up for the bell-cord and pushed the button. I heard it buzz down\
the hall and then some one coming on rubber soles along the hall. It was\
Miss Gage and she looked a little older in the bright sunlight and not\
so pretty.\
\
\'93Good-morning,\'94 she said. \'93Did you have a good night?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Thanks very much,\'94 I said. \'93Can I have a barber?\'94\
\
\'93I came in to see you and you were asleep with this in the bed with\
you.\'94\
\
She opened the armoire door and held up the vermouth bottle. It was\
nearly empty. \'93I put the other bottle from under the bed in there too,\'94\
she said. \'93Why didn\'92t you ask me for a glass?\'94\
\
\'93I thought maybe you wouldn\'92t let me have it.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d have had some with you.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a fine girl.\'94\
\
\'93It isn\'92t good for you to drink alone,\'94 she said. \'93You mustn\'92t do it.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Your friend Miss Barkley\'92s come,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93Really?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I don\'92t like her.\'94\
\
\'93You will like her. She\'92s awfully nice.\'94\
\
She shook her head. \'93I\'92m sure she\'92s fine. Can you move just a little to\
this side? That\'92s fine. I\'92ll clean you up for breakfast.\'94 She washed me\
with a cloth and soap and warm water. \'93Hold your shoulder up,\'94 she said.\
\'93That\'92s fine.\'94\
\
\'93Can I have the barber before breakfast?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll send the porter for him.\'94 She went out and came back. \'93He\'92s gone\
for him,\'94 she said and dipped the cloth she held in the basin of water.\
\
The barber came with the porter. He was a man of about fifty with an\
upturned mustache. Miss Gage was finished with me and went out and the\
barber lathered my face and shaved. He was very solemn and refrained\
from talking.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter? Don\'92t you know any news?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93What news?\'94\
\
\'93Any news. What\'92s happened in the town?\'94\
\
\'93It is time of war,\'94 he said. \'93The enemy\'92s ears are everywhere.\'94\
\
I looked up at him. \'93Please hold your face still,\'94 he said and went on\
shaving. \'93I will tell nothing.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter with you?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93I am an Italian. I will not communicate with the enemy.\'94\
\
I let it go at that. If he was crazy, the sooner I could get out from\
under the razor the better. Once I tried to get a good look at him.\
\'93Beware,\'94 he said. \'93The razor is sharp.\'94\
\
I paid him when it was over and tipped him half a lira. He returned the\
coins.\
\
\'93I will not. I am not at the front. But I am an Italian.\'94\
\
\'93Get the hell out of here.\'94\
\
\'93With your permission,\'94 he said and wrapped his razors in newspaper. He\
went out leaving the five copper coins on the table beside the bed. I\
rang the bell. Miss Gage came in. \'93Would you ask the porter to come\
please?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
The porter came in. He was trying to keep from laughing.\
\
\'93Is that barber crazy?\'94\
\
\'93No, signorino. He made a mistake. He doesn\'92t understand very well and\
he thought I said you were an Austrian officer.\'94\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Ho ho ho,\'94 the porter laughed. \'93He was funny. One move from you he said\
and he would have\'97\'94 he drew his forefinger across his throat.\
\
\'93Ho ho ho,\'94 he tried to keep from laughing. \'93When I tell him you were\
not an Austrian. Ho ho ho.\'94\
\
\'93Ho ho ho,\'94 I said bitterly. \'93How funny if he would cut my throat. Ho ho\
ho.\'94\
\
\'93No, signorino. No, no. He was so frightened of an Austrian. Ho ho ho.\'94\
\
\'93Ho ho ho,\'94 I said. \'93Get out of here.\'94\
\
He went out and I heard him laughing in the hall. I heard some one\
coming down the hallway. I looked toward the door. It was Catherine\
Barkley.\
\
She came in the room and over to the bed.\
\
\'93Hello, darling,\'94 she said. She looked fresh and young and very\
beautiful. I thought I had never seen any one so beautiful.\
\
\'93Hello,\'94 I said. When I saw her I was in love with her. Everything\
turned over inside of me. She looked toward the door, saw there was no\
one, then she sat on the side of the bed and leaned over and kissed me.\
I pulled her down and kissed her and felt her heart beating.\
\
\'93You sweet,\'94 I said. \'93Weren\'92t you wonderful to come here?\'94\
\
\'93It wasn\'92t very hard. It may be hard to stay.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve got to stay,\'94 I said. \'93Oh, you\'92re wonderful.\'94 I was crazy about\
her. I could not believe she was really there and held her tight to me.\
\
\
\
\'93You mustn\'92t,\'94 she said. \'93You\'92re not well enough.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I am. Come on.\'94\
\
\'93No. You\'92re not strong enough.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I am. Yes. Please.\'94\
\
\'93You do love me?\'94\
\
\'93I really love you. I\'92m crazy about you. Come on please.\'94\
\
\'93Feel our hearts beating.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t care about our hearts. I want you. I\'92m just mad about you.\'94\
\
\'93You really love me?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t keep on saying that. Come on. Please. Please, Catherine.\'94\
\
\'93All right but only for a minute.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93Shut the door.\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t. You shouldn\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Come on. Don\'92t talk. Please come on.\'94\
\
\
\
Catherine sat in a chair by the bed. The door was open into the hall.\
The wildness was gone and I felt finer than I had ever felt.\
\
She asked, \'93Now do you believe I love you?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, you\'92re lovely,\'94 I said. \'93You\'92ve got to stay. They can\'92t send you\
away. I\'92m crazy in love with you.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll have to be awfully careful. That was just madness. We can\'92t do\
that.\'94\
\
\'93We can at night.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll have to be awfully careful. You\'92ll have to be careful in front of\
other people.\'94\
\
\'93I will.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll have to be. You\'92re sweet. You do love me, don\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t say that again. You don\'92t know what that does to me.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be careful then. I don\'92t want to do anything more to you. I have\
to go now, darling, really.\'94\
\
\'93Come back right away.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll come when I can.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by, sweet.\'94\
\
She went out. God knows I had not wanted to fall in love with her. I had\
not wanted to fall in love with any one. But God knows I had and I lay\
on the bed in the room of the hospital in Milan and all sorts of things\
went through my head but I felt wonderful and finally Miss Gage came in.\
\
\'93The doctor\'92s coming,\'94 she said. \'93He telephoned from Lake Como.\'94\
\
\'93When does he get here?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92ll be here this afternoon.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER XV\
\
Nothing happened until afternoon. The doctor was a thin quiet little man\
who seemed disturbed by the war. He took out a number of small steel\
splinters from my thighs with delicate and refined distaste. He used a\
local an\'e6sthetic called something or other \'93snow,\'94 which froze the\
tissue and avoided pain until the probe, the scalpel or the forceps got\
below the frozen portion. The an\'e6sthetized area was clearly defined by\
the patient and after a time the doctor\'92s fragile delicacy was exhausted\
and he said it would be better to have an X-ray. Probing was\
unsatisfactory, he said.\
\
The X-ray was taken at the Ospedale Maggiore and the doctor who did it\
was excitable, efficient and cheerful. It was arranged by holding up the\
shoulders, that the patient should see personally some of the larger\
foreign bodies through the machine. The plates were to be sent over. The\
doctor requested me to write in his pocket notebook, my name, and\
regiment and some sentiment. He declared that the foreign bodies were\
ugly, nasty, brutal. The Austrians were sons of bitches. How many had I\
killed? I had not killed any but I was anxious to please\'97and I said I\
had killed plenty. Miss Gage was with me and the doctor put his arm\
around her and said she was more beautiful than Cleopatra. Did she\
understand that? Cleopatra the former queen of Egypt. Yes, by God she\
was. We returned to the little hospital in the ambulance and after a\
while and much lifting I was upstairs and in bed again. The plates came\
that afternoon, the doctor had said by God he would have them that\
afternoon and he did. Catherine Barkley showed them to me. They were in\
red envelopes and she took them out of the envelopes and held them up to\
the light and we both looked.\
\
\'93That\'92s your right leg,\'94 she said, then put the plate back in the\
envelope. \'93This is your left.\'94\
\
\'93Put them away,\'94 I said, \'93and come over to the bed.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t,\'94 she said. \'93I just brought them in for a second to show you.\'94\
\
She went out and I lay there. It was a hot afternoon and I was sick of\
lying in bed. I sent the porter for the papers, all the papers he could\
get.\
\
Before he came back three doctors came into the room. I have noticed\
that doctors who fail in the practice of medicine have a tendency to\
seek one another\'92s company and aid in consultation. A doctor who cannot\
take out your appendix properly will recommend to you a doctor who will\
be unable to remove your tonsils with success. These were three such\
doctors.\
\
\'93This is the young man,\'94 said the house doctor with the delicate hands.\
\
\'93How do you do?\'94 said the tall gaunt doctor with the beard. The third\
doctor, who carried the X-ray plates in their red envelopes, said\
nothing.\
\
\'93Remove the dressings?\'94 questioned the bearded doctor.\
\
\'93Certainly. Remove the dressings, please, nurse,\'94 the house doctor said\
to Miss Gage. Miss Gage removed the dressings. I looked down at the\
legs. At the field hospital they had the look of not too freshly ground\
hamburger steak. Now they were crusted and the knee was swollen and\
discolored and the calf sunken but there was no pus.\
\
\'93Very clean,\'94 said the house doctor. \'93Very clean and nice.\'94\
\
\'93Um,\'94 said the doctor with the beard. The third doctor looked over the\
house doctor\'92s shoulder.\
\
\'93Please move the knee,\'94 said the bearded doctor.\
\
\'93I can\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Test the articulation?\'94 the bearded doctor questioned. He had a stripe\
beside the three stars on his sleeve. That meant he was a first captain.\
\
\'93Certainly,\'94 the house doctor said. Two of them took hold of my right\
leg very gingerly and bent it.\
\
\'93That hurts,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes. Yes. A little further, doctor.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s enough. That\'92s as far as it goes,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Partial articulation,\'94 said the first captain. He straightened up. \'93May\
I see the plates again, please, doctor?\'94 The third doctor handed him one\
of the plates. \'93No. The left leg, please.\'94\
\
\'93That is the left leg, doctor.\'94\
\
\'93You are right. I was looking from a different angle.\'94 He returned the\
plate. The other plate he examined for some time. \'93You see, doctor?\'94 he\
pointed to one of the foreign bodies which showed spherical and clear\
against the light. They examined the plate for some time.\
\
\'93Only one thing I can say,\'94 the first captain with the beard said. \'93It\
is a question of time. Three months, six months probably.\'94\
\
\'93Certainly the synovial fluid must re-form.\'94\
\
\'93Certainly. It is a question of time. I could not conscientiously open a\
knee like that before the projectile was encysted.\'94\
\
\'93I agree with you, doctor.\'94\
\
\'93Six months for what?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Six months for the projectile to encyst before the knee can be opened\
safely.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe it,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Do you want to keep your knee, young man?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93I want it cut off,\'94 I said, \'93so I can wear a hook on it.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean? A hook?\'94\
\
\'93He is joking,\'94 said the house doctor. He patted my shoulder very\
delicately. \'93He wants to keep his knee. This is a very brave young man.\
He has been proposed for the silver medal of valor.\'94\
\
\'93All my felicitations,\'94 said the first captain. He shook my hand. \'93I can\
only say that to be on the safe side you should wait at least six months\
before opening such a knee. You are welcome of course to another\
opinion.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you very much,\'94 I said. \'93I value your opinion.\'94\
\
The first captain looked at his watch.\
\
\'93We must go,\'94 he said. \'93All my best wishes.\'94\
\
\'93All my best wishes and many thanks,\'94 I said. I shook hands with the\
third doctor, \'93Capitano Varini\'97Tenente Enry,\'94 and they all three went\
out of the room.\
\
\'93Miss Gage,\'94 I called. She came in. \'93Please ask the house doctor to come\
back a minute.\'94\
\
He came in holding his cap and stood by the bed. \'93Did you wish to see\
me?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I can\'92t wait six months to be operated on. My God, doctor, did you\
ever stay in bed six months?\'94\
\
\'93You won\'92t be in bed all the time. You must first have the wounds\
exposed to the sun. Then afterward you can be on crutches.\'94\
\
\'93For six months and then have an operation?\'94\
\
\'93That is the safe way. The foreign bodies must be allowed to encyst and\
the synovial fluid will re-form. Then it will be safe to open up the\
knee.\'94\
\
\'93Do you really think yourself I will have to wait that long?\'94\
\
\'93That is the safe way.\'94\
\
\'93Who is that first captain?\'94\
\
\'93He is a very excellent surgeon of Milan.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a first captain, isn\'92t he?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, but he is an excellent surgeon.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want my leg fooled with by a first captain. If he was any good\
he would be made a major. I know what a first captain is, doctor.\'94\
\
\'93He is an excellent surgeon and I would rather have his judgment than\
any surgeon I know.\'94\
\
\'93Could another surgeon see it?\'94\
\
\'93Certainly if you wish. But I would take Dr. Varella\'92s opinion myself.\'94\
\
\'93Could you ask another surgeon to come and see it?\'94\
\
\'93I will ask Valentini to come.\'94\
\
\'93Who is he?\'94\
\
\'93He is a surgeon of the Ospedale Maggiore.\'94\
\
\'93Good. I appreciate it very much. You understand, doctor, I couldn\'92t\
stay in bed six months.\'94\
\
\'93You would not be in bed. You would first take a sun cure. Then you\
could have light exercise. Then when it was encysted we would operate.\'94\
\
\'93But I can\'92t wait six months.\'94\
\
The doctor spread his delicate fingers on the cap he held and smiled.\
\'93You are in such a hurry to get back to the front?\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93It is very beautiful,\'94 he said. \'93You are a noble young man.\'94 He stooped\
over and kissed me very delicately on the forehead. \'93I will send for\
Valentini. Do not worry and excite yourself. Be a good boy.\'94\
\
\'93Will you have a drink?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No thank you. I never drink alcohol.\'94\
\
\'93Just have one.\'94 I rang for the porter to bring glasses.\
\
\'93No. No thank you. They are waiting for me.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Good-by.\'94\
\
\
\
Two hours later Dr. Valentini came into the room. He was in a great\
hurry and the points of his mustache stood straight up. He was a major,\
his face was tanned and he laughed all the time.\
\
\'93How did you do it, this rotten thing?\'94 he asked. \'93Let me see the\
plates. Yes. Yes. That\'92s it. You look healthy as a goat. Who\'92s the\
pretty girl? Is she your girl? I thought so. Isn\'92t this a bloody war?\
How does that feel? You are a fine boy. I\'92ll make you better than new.\
Does that hurt? You bet it hurts. How they love to hurt you, these\
doctors. What have they done for you so far? Can\'92t that girl talk\
Italian? She should learn. What a lovely girl. I could teach her. I will\
be a patient here myself. No, but I will do all your maternity work\
free. Does she understand that? She will make you a fine boy. A fine\
blonde like she is. That\'92s fine. That\'92s all right. What a lovely girl.\
Ask her if she eats supper with me. No I won\'92t take her away from you.\
Thank you. Thank you very much, Miss. That\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all I want to know.\'94 He patted me on the shoulder. \'93Leave the\
dressings off.\'94\
\
\'93Will you have a drink, Dr. Valentini?\'94\
\
\'93A drink? Certainly. I will have ten drinks. Where are they?\'94\
\
\'93In the armoire. Miss Barkley will get the bottle.\'94\
\
\'93Cheery oh. Cheery oh to you, Miss. What a lovely girl. I will bring you\
better cognac than that.\'94 He wiped his mustache.\
\
\'93When do you think it can be operated on?\'94\
\
\'93To-morrow morning. Not before. Your stomach must be emptied. You must\
be washed out. I will see the old lady downstairs and leave\
instructions. Good-by. I see you to-morrow. I\'92ll bring you better cognac\
than that. You are very comfortable here. Good-by. Until to-morrow. Get\
a good sleep. I\'92ll see you early.\'94 He waved from the doorway, his\
mustaches went straight up, his brown face was smiling. There was a star\
in a box on his sleeve because he was a major.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XVI\
\
That night a bat flew into the room through the open door that led onto\
the balcony and through which we watched the night over the roofs of the\
town. It was dark in our room except for the small light of the night\
over the town and the bat was not frightened but hunted in the room as\
though he had been outside. We lay and watched him and I do not think he\
saw us because we lay so still. After he went out we saw a searchlight\
come on and watched the beam move across the sky and then go off and it\
was dark again. A breeze came in the night and we heard the men of the\
anti-aircraft gun on the next roof talking. It was cool and they were\
putting on their capes. I worried in the night about some one coming up\
but Catherine said they were all asleep. Once in the night we went to\
sleep and when I woke she was not there but I heard her coming along the\
hall and the door opened and she came back to the bed and said it was\
all right she had been downstairs and they were all asleep. She had been\
outside Miss Van Campen\'92s door and heard her breathing in her sleep. She\
brought crackers and we ate them and drank some vermouth. We were very\
hungry but she said that would all have to be gotten out of me in the\
morning. I went to sleep again in the morning when it was light and when\
I was awake I found she was gone again. She came in looking fresh and\
lovely and sat on the bed and the sun rose while I had the thermometer\
in my mouth and we smelled the dew on the roofs and then the coffee of\
the men at the gun on the next roof.\
\
\'93I wish we could go for a walk,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I\'92d wheel you if we\
had a chair.\'94\
\
\'93How would I get into the chair?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92d do it.\'94\
\
\'93We could go out to the park and have breakfast outdoors.\'94 I looked out\
the open doorway.\
\
\'93What we\'92ll really do,\'94 she said, \'93is get you ready for your friend Dr.\
Valentini.\'94\
\
\'93I thought he was grand.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t like him as much as you did. But I imagine he\'92s very good.\'94\
\
\'93Come back to bed, Catherine. Please,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I can\'92t. Didn\'92t we have a lovely night?\'94\
\
\'93And can you be on night duty to-night?\'94\
\
\'93I probably will. But you won\'92t want me.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I will.\'94\
\
\'93No, you won\'92t. You\'92ve never been operated on. You don\'92t know how you\'92ll\
be.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be all right.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll be sick and I won\'92t be anything to you.\'94\
\
\'93Come back then now.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 she said. \'93I have to do the chart, darling, and fix you up.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t really love me or you\'92d come back again.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re such a silly boy.\'94 She kissed me. \'93That\'92s all right for the\
chart. Your temperature\'92s always normal. You\'92ve such a lovely\
temperature.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve got a lovely everything.\'94\
\
\'93Oh no. You have the lovely temperature. I\'92m awfully proud of your\
temperature.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe all our children will have fine temperatures.\'94\
\
\'93Our children will probably have beastly temperatures.\'94\
\
\'93What do you have to do to get me ready for Valentini?\'94\
\
\'93Not much. But quite unpleasant.\'94\
\
\'93I wish you didn\'92t have to do it.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t. I don\'92t want any one else to touch you. I\'92m silly. I get\
furious if they touch you.\'94\
\
\'93Even Ferguson?\'94\
\
\'93Especially Ferguson and Gage and the other, what\'92s her name?\'94\
\
\'93Walker?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it. They\'92ve too many nurses here now. There must be some more\
patients or they\'92ll send us away. They have four nurses now.\'94\
\
\'93Perhaps there\'92ll be some. They need that many nurses. It\'92s quite a big\
hospital.\'94\
\
\'93I hope some will come. What would I do if they sent me away? They will\
unless there are more patients.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d go too.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be silly. You can\'92t go yet. But get well quickly, darling, and we\
will go somewhere.\'94\
\
\'93And then what?\'94\
\
\'93Maybe the war will be over. It can\'92t always go on.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll get well,\'94 I said. \'93Valentini will fix me.\'94\
\
\'93He should with those mustaches. And, darling, when you\'92re going under\
the ether just think about something else\'97not us. Because people get\
very blabby under an an\'e6sthetic.\'94\
\
\'93What should I think about?\'94\
\
\'93Anything. Anything but us. Think about your people. Or even any other\
girl.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Say your prayers then. That ought to create a splendid impression.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe I won\'92t talk.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s true. Often people don\'92t talk.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t talk.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t brag, darling. Please don\'92t brag. You\'92re so sweet and you don\'92t\
have to brag.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t talk a word.\'94\
\
\'93Now you\'92re bragging, darling. You know you don\'92t need to brag. Just\
start your prayers or poetry or something when they tell you to breathe\
deeply. You\'92ll be lovely that way and I\'92ll be so proud of you. I\'92m very\
proud of you anyway. You have such a lovely temperature and you sleep\
like a little boy with your arm around the pillow and think it\'92s me. Or\
is it some other girl? Some fine Italian girl?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s you.\'94\
\
\'93Of course it\'92s me. Oh I do love you and Valentini will make you a fine\
leg. I\'92m glad I don\'92t have to watch it.\'94\
\
\'93And you\'92ll be on night duty to-night.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. But you won\'92t care.\'94\
\
\'93You wait and see.\'94\
\
\'93There, darling. Now you\'92re all clean inside and out. Tell me. How many\
people have you ever loved?\'94\
\
\'93Nobody.\'94\
\
\'93Not me even?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, you.\'94\
\
\'93How many others really?\'94\
\
\'93None.\'94\
\
\'93How many have you\'97how do you say it?\'97stayed with?\'94\
\
\'93None.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re lying to me.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right. Keep right on lying to me. That\'92s what I want you to\
do. Were they pretty?\'94\
\
\'93I never stayed with any one.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s right. Were they very attractive?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know anything about it.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re just mine. That\'92s true and you\'92ve never belonged to any one\
else. But I don\'92t care if you have. I\'92m not afraid of them. But don\'92t\
tell me about them. When a man stays with a girl when does she say how\
much it costs?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93Of course not. Does she say she loves him? Tell me that. I want to know\
that.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. If he wants her to.\'94\
\
\'93Does he say he loves her? Tell me please. It\'92s important.\'94\
\
\'93He does if he wants to.\'94\
\
\'93But you never did? Really?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Not really. Tell me the truth?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I lied.\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t,\'94 she said. \'93I knew you wouldn\'92t. Oh, I love you,\
darling.\'94\
\
Outside the sun was up over the roofs and I could see the points of the\
cathedral with the sunlight on them. I was clean inside and outside and\
waiting for the doctor.\
\
\'93And that\'92s it?\'94 Catherine said. \'93She says just what he wants her to?\'94\
\
\'93Not always.\'94\
\
\'93But I will. I\'92ll say just what you wish and I\'92ll do what you wish and\
then you will never want any other girls, will you?\'94 She looked at me\
very happily. \'93I\'92ll do what you want and say what you want and then I\'92ll\
be a great success, won\'92t I?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93What would you like me to do now that you\'92re all ready?\'94\
\
\'93Come to the bed again.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I\'92ll come.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, darling, darling, darling,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You see,\'94 she said. \'93I do anything you want.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re so lovely.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m afraid I\'92m not very good at it yet.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re lovely.\'94\
\
\'93I want what you want. There isn\'92t any me any more. Just what you want.\'94\
\
\'93You sweet.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m good. Aren\'92t I good? You don\'92t want any other girls, do you?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93You see? I\'92m good. I do what you want.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XVII\
\
When I was awake after the operation I had not been away. You do not go\
away. They only choke you. It is not like dying it is just a chemical\
choking so you do not feel, and afterward you might as well have been\
drunk except that when you throw up nothing comes but bile and you do\
not feel better afterward. I saw sandbags at the end of the bed. They\
were on pipes that came out of the cast. After a while I saw Miss Gage\
and she said, \'93How is it now?\'94\
\
\'93Better,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93He did a wonderful job on your knee.\'94\
\
\'93How long did it take?\'94\
\
\'93Two hours and a half.\'94\
\
\'93Did I say anything silly?\'94\
\
\'93Not a thing. Don\'92t talk. Just be quiet.\'94\
\
I was sick and Catherine was right. It did not make any difference who\
was on night duty.\
\
\
\
There were three other patients in the hospital now, a thin boy in the\
Red Cross from Georgia with malaria, a nice boy, also thin, from New\
York, with malaria and jaundice, and a fine boy who had tried to unscrew\
the fuse-cap from a combination shrapnel and high explosive shell for a\
souvenir. This was a shrapnel shell used by the Austrians in the\
mountains with a nose-cap which went on after the burst and exploded on\
contact.\
\
Catherine Barkley was greatly liked by the nurses because she would do\
night duty indefinitely. She had quite a little work with the malaria\
people, the boy who had unscrewed the nose-cap was a friend of ours and\
never rang at night, unless it was necessary but between the times of\
working we were together. I loved her very much and she loved me. I\
slept in the daytime and we wrote notes during the day when we were\
awake and sent them by Ferguson. Ferguson was a fine girl. I never\
learned anything about her except that she had a brother in the\
Fifty-Second Division and a brother in Mesopotamia and she was very good\
to Catherine Barkley.\
\
\'93Will you come to our wedding, Fergy?\'94 I said to her once.\
\
\'93You\'92ll never get married.\'94\
\
\'93We will.\'94\
\
\'93No you won\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll fight before you\'92ll marry.\'94\
\
\'93We never fight.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve time yet.\'94\
\
\'93We don\'92t fight.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll die then. Fight or die. That\'92s what people do. They don\'92t\
marry.\'94\
\
I reached for her hand. \'93Don\'92t take hold of me,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m not\
crying. Maybe you\'92ll be all right you two. But watch out you don\'92t get\
her in trouble. You get her in trouble and I\'92ll kill you.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t get her in trouble.\'94\
\
\'93Well watch out then. I hope you\'92ll be all right. You have a good time.\'94\
\
\'93We have a fine time.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t fight then and don\'92t get her into trouble.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Mind you watch out. I don\'92t want her with any of these war babies.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a fine girl, Fergy.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not. Don\'92t try to flatter me. How does your leg feel?\'94\
\
\'93Fine.\'94\
\
\'93How is your head?\'94 She touched the top of it with her fingers. It was\
sensitive like a foot that had gone to sleep. \'93It\'92s never bothered me.\'94\
\
\'93A bump like that could make you crazy. It never bothers you?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a lucky young man. Have you the letter done? I\'92m going down.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s here,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You ought to ask her not to do night duty for a while. She\'92s getting\
very tired.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I will.\'94\
\
\'93I want to do it but she won\'92t let me. The others are glad to let her\
have it. You might give her just a little rest.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Miss Van Campen spoke about you sleeping all the forenoons.\'94\
\
\'93She would.\'94\
\
\'93It would be better if you let her stay off nights a little while.\'94\
\
\'93I want her to.\'94\
\
\'93You do not. But if you would make her I\'92d respect you for it.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll make her.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe it.\'94 She took the note and went out. I rang the bell\
and in a little while Miss Gage came in.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93I just wanted to talk to you. Don\'92t you think Miss Barkley ought to go\
off night duty for a while? She looks awfully tired. Why does she stay\
on so long?\'94\
\
Miss Gage looked at me.\
\
\'93I\'92m a friend of yours,\'94 she said. \'93You don\'92t have to talk to me like\
that.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be silly. Was that all you wanted?\'94\
\
\'93Do you want a vermouth?\'94\
\
\'93All right. Then I have to go.\'94 She got out the bottle from the armoire\
and brought a glass.\
\
\'93You take the glass,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll drink out of the bottle.\'94\
\
\'93Here\'92s to you,\'94 said Miss Gage.\
\
\'93What did Van Campen say about me sleeping late in the mornings?\'94\
\
\'93She just jawed about it. She calls you our privileged patient.\'94\
\
\'93To hell with her.\'94\
\
\'93She isn\'92t mean,\'94 Miss Gage said. \'93She\'92s just old and cranky. She never\
liked you.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I do. And I\'92m your friend. Don\'92t forget that.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re awfully damned nice.\'94\
\
\'93No. I know who you think is nice. But I\'92m your friend. How does your\
leg feel?\'94\
\
\'93Fine.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll bring some cold mineral water to pour over it. It must itch under\
the cast. It\'92s hot outside.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re awful nice.\'94\
\
\'93Does it itch much?\'94\
\
\'93No. It\'92s fine.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll fix those sandbags better.\'94 She leaned over. \'93I\'92m your friend.\'94\
\
\'93I know you are.\'94\
\
\'93No you don\'92t. But you will some day.\'94\
\
Catherine Barkley took three nights off night duty and then she came\
back on again. It was as though we met again after each of us had been\
away on a long journey.\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XVIII\
\
We had a lovely time that summer. When I could go out we rode in a\
carriage in the park. I remember the carriage, the horse going slowly,\
and up ahead the back of the driver with his varnished high hat, and\
Catherine Barkley sitting beside me. If we let our hands touch, just the\
side of my hand touching hers, we were excited. Afterward when I could\
get around on crutches we went to dinner at Biffi\'92s or the Gran Italia\
and sat at the tables outside on the floor of the galleria. The waiters\
came in and out and there were people going by and candles with shades\
on the tablecloths and after we decided that we liked the Gran Italia\
best, George, the head-waiter, saved us a table. He was a fine waiter\
and we let him order the meal while we looked at the people, and the\
great galleria in the dusk, and each other. We drank dry white capri\
iced in a bucket; although we tried many of the other wines, fresa,\
barbera and the sweet white wines. They had no wine waiter because of\
the war and George would smile ashamedly when I asked about wines like\
fresa.\
\
\'93If you imagine a country that makes a wine because it tastes like\
strawberries,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Why shouldn\'92t it?\'94 Catherine asked. \'93It sounds splendid.\'94\
\
\'93You try it, lady,\'94 said George, \'93if you want to. But let me bring a\
little bottle of margaux for the Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll try it too, George.\'94\
\
\'93Sir, I can\'92t recommend you to. It doesn\'92t even taste like\
strawberries.\'94\
\
\'93It might,\'94 said Catherine. \'93It would be wonderful if it did.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll bring it,\'94 said George, \'93and when the Lady is satisfied I\'92ll take\
it away.\'94\
\
It was not much of a wine. As he said, it did not even taste like\
strawberries. We went back to capri. One evening I was short of money\
and George loaned me a hundred lire. \'93That\'92s all right, Tenente,\'94 he\
said. \'93I know how it is. I know how a man gets short. If you or the lady\
need money I\'92ve always got money.\'94\
\
After dinner we walked through the galleria, past the other restaurants\
and the shops with their steel shutters down, and stopped at the little\
place where they sold sandwiches; ham and lettuce sandwiches and anchovy\
sandwiches made of very tiny brown glazed rolls and only about as long\
as your finger. They were to eat in the night when we were hungry. Then\
we got into an open carriage outside the galleria in front of the\
cathedral and rode to the hospital. At the door of the hospital the\
porter came out to help with the crutches. I paid the driver, and then\
we rode upstairs in the elevator. Catherine got off at the lower floor\
where the nurses lived and I went on up and went down the hall on\
crutches to my room; sometimes I undressed and got into bed and\
sometimes I sat out on the balcony with my leg up on another chair and\
watched the swallows over the roofs and waited for Catherine. When she\
came upstairs it was as though she had been away on a long trip and I\
went along the hall with her on the crutches and carried the basins and\
waited outside the doors, or went in with her; it depending on whether\
they were friends of ours or not, and when she had done all there was to\
be done we sat out on the balcony outside my room. Afterward I went to\
bed and when they were all asleep and she was sure they would not call\
she came in. I loved to take her hair down and she sat on the bed and\
kept very still, except suddenly she would dip down to kiss me while I\
was doing it, and I would take out the pins and lay them on the sheet\
and it would be loose and I would watch her while she kept very still\
and then take out the last two pins and it would all come down and she\
would drop her head and we would both be inside of it, and it was the\
feeling of inside a tent or behind a falls.\
\
She had wonderfully beautiful hair and I would lie sometimes and watch\
her twisting it up in the light that came in the open door and it shone\
even in the night as water shines sometimes just before it is really\
daylight. She had a lovely face and body and lovely smooth skin too. We\
would be lying together and I would touch her cheeks and her forehead\
and under her eyes and her chin and throat with the tips of my fingers\
and say, \'93Smooth as piano keys,\'94 and she would stroke my chin with her\
finger and say, \'93Smooth as emery paper and very hard on piano keys.\'94\
\
\'93Is it rough?\'94\
\
\'93No, darling. I was just making fun of you.\'94\
\
It was lovely in the nights and if we could only touch each other we\
were happy. Besides all the big times we had many small ways of making\
love and we tried putting thoughts in the other one\'92s head while we were\
in different rooms. It seemed to work sometimes but that was probably\
because we were thinking the same thing anyway.\
\
We said to each other that we were married the first day she had come to\
the hospital and we counted months from our wedding day. I wanted to be\
really married but Catherine said that if we were they would send her\
away and if we merely started on the formalities they would watch her\
and would break us up. We would have to be married under Italian law and\
the formalities were terrific. I wanted us to be married really because\
I worried about having a child if I thought about it, but we pretended\
to ourselves we were married and did not worry much and I suppose I\
enjoyed not being married, really. I know one night we talked about it\
and Catherine said, \'93But, darling, they\'92d send me away.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe they wouldn\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93They would. They\'92d send me home and then we would be apart until after\
the war.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d come on leave.\'94\
\
\'93You couldn\'92t get to Scotland and back on a leave. Besides, I won\'92t\
leave you. What good would it do to marry now? We\'92re really married. I\
couldn\'92t be any more married.\'94\
\
\'93I only wanted to for you.\'94\
\
\'93There isn\'92t any me. I\'92m you. Don\'92t make up a separate me.\'94\
\
\'93I thought girls always wanted to be married.\'94\
\
\'93They do. But, darling, I am married. I\'92m married to you. Don\'92t I make\
you a good wife?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a lovely wife.\'94\
\
\'93You see, darling, I had one experience of waiting to be married.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to hear about it.\'94\
\
\'93You know I don\'92t love any one but you. You shouldn\'92t mind because some\
one else loved me.\'94\
\
\'93I do.\'94\
\
\'93You shouldn\'92t be jealous of some one who\'92s dead when you have\
everything.\'94\
\
\'93No, but I don\'92t want to hear about it.\'94\
\
\'93Poor darling. And I know you\'92ve been with all kinds of girls and it\
doesn\'92t matter to me.\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t we be married privately some way? Then if anything happened to\
me or if you had a child.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s no way to be married except by church or state. We are married\
privately. You see, darling, it would mean everything to me if I had any\
religion. But I haven\'92t any religion.\'94\
\
\'93You gave me the Saint Anthony.\'94\
\
\'93That was for luck. Some one gave it to me.\'94\
\
\'93Then nothing worries you?\'94\
\
\'93Only being sent away from you. You\'92re my religion. You\'92re all I\'92ve\
got.\'94\
\
\'93All right. But I\'92ll marry you the day you say.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk as though you had to make an honest woman of me, darling.\
I\'92m a very honest woman. You can\'92t be ashamed of something if you\'92re\
only happy and proud of it. Aren\'92t you happy?\'94\
\
\'93But you won\'92t ever leave me for some one else.\'94\
\
\'93No, darling. I won\'92t ever leave you for some one else. I suppose all\
sorts of dreadful things will happen to us. But you don\'92t have to worry\
about that.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t. But I love you so much and you did love some one else before.\'94\
\
\'93And what happened to him?\'94\
\
\'93He died.\'94\
\
\'93Yes and if he hadn\'92t I wouldn\'92t have met you. I\'92m not unfaithful,\
darling. I\'92ve plenty of faults but I\'92m very faithful. You\'92ll be sick of\
me I\'92ll be so faithful.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll have to go back to the front pretty soon.\'94\
\
\'93We won\'92t think about that until you go. You see I\'92m happy, darling, and\
we have a lovely time. I haven\'92t been happy for a long time and when I\
met you perhaps I was nearly crazy. Perhaps I was crazy. But now we\'92re\
happy and we love each other. Do let\'92s please just be happy. You are\
happy, aren\'92t you? Is there anything I do you don\'92t like? Can I do\
anything to please you? Would you like me to take down my hair? Do you\
want to play?\'94\
\
\'93Yes and come to bed.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I\'92ll go and see the patients first.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XIX\
\
The summer went that way. I do not remember much about the days, except\
that they were hot and that there were many victories in the papers. I\
was very healthy and my legs healed quickly so that it was not very long\
after I was first on crutches before I was through with them and walking\
with a cane. Then I started treatments at the Ospedale Maggiore for\
bending the knees, mechanical treatments, baking in a box of mirrors\
with violet rays, massage, and baths. I went over there afternoons and\
afterward stopped at the caf\'e9 and had a drink and read the papers. I did\
not roam around the town; but wanted to get home to the hospital from\
the caf\'e9. All I wanted was to see Catherine. The rest of the time I was\
glad to kill. Mostly I slept in the mornings, and in the afternoons,\
sometimes, I went to the races, and late to the mechano-therapy\
treatments. Sometimes I stopped in at the Anglo-American Club and sat in\
a deep leather-cushioned chair in front of the window and read the\
magazines. They would not let us go out together when I was off crutches\
because it was unseemly for a nurse to be seen unchaperoned with a\
patient who did not look as though he needed attendance, so we were not\
together much in the afternoons. Although sometimes we could go out to\
dinner if Ferguson went along. Miss Van Campen had accepted the status\
that we were great friends because she got a great amount of work out of\
Catherine. She thought Catherine came from very good people and that\
prejudiced her in her favor finally. Miss Van Campen admired family very\
much and came from an excellent family herself. The hospital was quite\
busy, too, and that kept her occupied. It was a hot summer and I knew\
many people in Milan but always was anxious to get back home to the\
hospital as soon as the afternoon was over. At the front they were\
advancing on the Carso, they had taken Kuk across from Plava and were\
taking the Bainsizza plateau. The West front did not sound so good. It\
looked as though the war were going on for a long time. We were in the\
war now but I thought it would take a year to get any great amount of\
troops over and train them for combat. Next year would be a bad year, or\
a good year maybe. The Italians were using up an awful amount of men. I\
did not see how it could go on. Even if they took all the Bainsizza and\
Monte San Gabriele there were plenty of mountains beyond for the\
Austrians. I had seen them. All the highest mountains were beyond. On\
the Carso they were going forward but there were marshes and swamps down\
by the sea. Napoleon would have whipped the Austrians on the plains. He\
never would have fought them in the mountains. He would have let them\
come down and whipped them around Verona. Still nobody was whipping any\
one on the Western front. Perhaps wars weren\'92t won any more. Maybe they\
went on forever. Maybe it was another Hundred Years\'92 War. I put the\
paper back on the rack and left the club. I went down the steps\
carefully and walked up the Via Manzoni. Outside the Gran Hotel I met\
old Meyers and his wife getting out of a carriage. They were coming back\
from the races. She was a big-busted woman in black satin. He was short\
and old, with a white mustache and walked flat-footed with a cane.\
\
\'93How do you do? How do you do?\'94 She shook hands. \'93Hello,\'94 said Meyers.\
\
\'93How were the races?\'94\
\
\'93Fine. They were just lovely. I had three winners.\'94\
\
\'93How did you do?\'94 I asked Meyers.\
\
\'93All right. I had a winner.\'94\
\
\'93I never know how he does,\'94 Mrs. Meyers said. \'93He never tells me.\'94\
\
\'93I do all right,\'94 Meyers said. He was being cordial. \'93You ought to come\
out.\'94 While he talked you had the impression that he was not looking at\
you or that he mistook you for some one else.\
\
\'93I will,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92m coming up to the hospital to see you,\'94 Mrs. Meyers said. \'93I have\
some things for my boys. You\'92re all my boys. You certainly are my dear\
boys.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92ll be glad to see you.\'94\
\
\'93Those dear boys. You too. You\'92re one of my boys.\'94\
\
\'93I have to get back,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You give my love to all those dear boys. I\'92ve got lots of things to\
bring. I\'92ve some fine Marsala and cakes.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by,\'94 I said. \'93They\'92ll be awfully glad to see you.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by,\'94 said Meyers. \'93You come around to the galleria. You know where\
my table is. We\'92re all there every afternoon.\'94 I went on up the street.\
I wanted to buy something at the Cova to take to Catherine. Inside, at\
the Cova, I bought a box of chocolate and while the girl wrapped it up I\
walked over to the bar. There were a couple of British and some\
aviators. I had a martini alone, paid for it, picked up the box of\
chocolate at the outside counter and walked on home toward the hospital.\
Outside the little bar up the street from the Scala there were some\
people I knew, a vice-consul, two fellows who studied singing, and\
Ettore Moretti, an Italian from San Francisco who was in the Italian\
army. I had a drink with them. One of the singers was named Ralph\
Simmons, and he was singing under the name of Enrico DelCredo. I never\
knew how well he could sing but he was always on the point of something\
very big happening. He was fat and looked shopworn around the nose and\
mouth as though he had hayfever. He had come back from singing in\
Piacenza. He had sung Tosca and it had been wonderful.\
\
\'93Of course you\'92ve never heard me sing,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93When will you sing here?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be at the Scala in the fall.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll bet they throw the benches at you,\'94 Ettore said. \'93Did you hear how\
they threw the benches at him in Modena?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a damned lie.\'94\
\
\'93They threw the benches at him,\'94 Ettore said. \'93I was there. I threw six\
benches myself.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re just a wop from Frisco.\'94\
\
\'93He can\'92t pronounce Italian,\'94 Ettore said. \'93Everywhere he goes they\
throw the benches at him.\'94\
\
\'93Piacenza\'92s the toughest house to sing in the north of Italy,\'94 the other\
tenor said. \'93Believe me that\'92s a tough little house to sing.\'94 This\
tenor\'92s name was Edgar Saunders, and he sang under the name of Edouardo\
Giovanni.\
\
\'93I\'92d like to be there to see them throw the benches at you,\'94 Ettore\
said. \'93You can\'92t sing Italian.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a nut,\'94 said Edgar Saunders. \'93All he knows how to say is throw\
benches.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all they know how to do when you two sing,\'94 Ettore said. \'93Then\
when you go to America you\'92ll tell about your triumphs at the Scala.\
They wouldn\'92t let you get by the first note at the Scala.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll sing at the Scala,\'94 Simmons said. \'93I\'92m going to sing Tosca in\
October.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll go, won\'92t we, Mac?\'94 Ettore said to the vice-consul. \'93They\'92ll need\
somebody to protect them.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe the American army will be there to protect them,\'94 the vice-consul\
said. \'93Do you want another drink, Simmons? You want a drink, Saunders?\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 said Saunders.\
\
\'93I hear you\'92re going to get the silver medal,\'94 Ettore said to me. \'93What\
kind of citation you going to get?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I don\'92t know I\'92m going to get it.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re going to get it. Oh boy, the girls at the Cova will think you\'92re\
fine then. They\'92ll all think you killed two hundred Austrians or\
captured a whole trench by yourself. Believe me, I got to work for my\
decorations.\'94\
\
\'93How many have you got, Ettore?\'94 asked the vice-consul.\
\
\'93He\'92s got everything,\'94 Simmons said. \'93He\'92s the boy they\'92re running the\
war for.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got the bronze twice and three silver medals,\'94 said Ettore. \'93But\
the papers on only one have come through.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter with the others?\'94 asked Simmons.\
\
\'93The action wasn\'92t successful,\'94 said Ettore. \'93When the action isn\'92t\
successful they hold up all the medals.\'94\
\
\'93How many times have you been wounded, Ettore?\'94\
\
\'93Three times bad. I got three wound stripes. See?\'94 He pulled his sleeve\
around. The stripes were parallel silver lines on a black background\
sewed to the cloth of the sleeve about eight inches below the shoulder.\
\
\'93You got one too,\'94 Ettore said to me. \'93Believe me they\'92re fine to have.\
I\'92d rather have them than medals. Believe me, boy, when you get three\
you\'92ve got something. You only get one for a wound that puts you three\
months in the hospital.\'94\
\
\'93Where were you wounded, Ettore?\'94 asked the vice-consul.\
\
Ettore pulled up his sleeve. \'93Here,\'94 he showed the deep smooth red scar.\
\'93Here on my leg. I can\'92t show you that because I got puttees on; and in\
the foot. There\'92s dead bone in my foot that stinks right now. Every\
morning I take new little pieces out and it stinks all the time.\'94\
\
\'93What hit you?\'94 asked Simmons.\
\
\'93A hand-grenade. One of those potato mashers. It just blew the whole\
side of my foot off. You know those potato mashers?\'94 He turned to me.\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93I saw the son of a bitch throw it,\'94 Ettore said. \'93It knocked me down\
and I thought I was dead all right but those damn potato mashers haven\'92t\
got anything in them. I shot the son of a bitch with my rifle. I always\
carry a rifle so they can\'92t tell I\'92m an officer.\'94\
\
\'93How did he look?\'94 asked Simmons.\
\
\'93That was the only one he had,\'94 Ettore said. \'93I don\'92t know why he threw\
it. I guess he always wanted to throw one. He never saw any real\
fighting probably. I shot the son of a bitch all right.\'94\
\
\'93How did he look when you shot him?\'94 Simmons asked.\
\
\'93Hell, how should I know,\'94 said Ettore. \'93I shot him in the belly. I was\
afraid I\'92d miss him if I shot him in the head.\'94\
\
\'93How long have you been an officer, Ettore?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Two years. I\'92m going to be a captain. How long have you been a\
lieutenant?\'94\
\
\'93Going on three years.\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t be a captain because you don\'92t know the Italian language well\
enough,\'94 Ettore said. \'93You can talk but you can\'92t read and write well\
enough. You got to have an education to be a captain. Why don\'92t you go\
in the American army?\'94\
\
\'93Maybe I will.\'94\
\
\'93I wish to God I could. Oh, boy, how much does a captain get, Mac?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know exactly. Around two hundred and fifty dollars, I think.\'94\
\
\'93Jesus Christ what I could do with two hundred and fifty dollars. You\
better get in the American army quick, Fred. See if you can\'92t get me\
in.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93I can command a company in Italian. I could learn it in English easy.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d be a general,\'94 said Simmons.\
\
\'93No, I don\'92t know enough to be a general. A general\'92s got to know a hell\
of a lot. You guys think there ain\'92t anything to war. You ain\'92t got\
brains enough to be a second-class corporal.\'94\
\
\'93Thank God I don\'92t have to be,\'94 Simmons said.\
\
\'93Maybe you will if they round up all you slackers. Oh, boy, I\'92d like to\
have you two in my platoon. Mac too. I\'92d make you my orderly, Mac.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a great boy, Ettore,\'94 Mac said. \'93But I\'92m afraid you\'92re a\
militarist.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be a colonel before the war\'92s over,\'94 Ettore said.\
\
\'93If they don\'92t kill you.\'94\
\
\'93They won\'92t kill me.\'94 He touched the stars at his collar with his thumb\
and forefinger. \'93See me do that? We always touch our stars if anybody\
mentions getting killed.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go, Sim,\'94 said Saunders standing up.\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93So long,\'94 I said. \'93I have to go too.\'94 It was a quarter to six by the\
clock inside the bar. \'93Ciaou, Ettore.\'94\
\
\'93Ciaou, Fred,\'94 said Ettore. \'93That\'92s pretty fine you\'92re going to get the\
silver medal.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know I\'92ll get it.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll get it all right, Fred. I heard you were going to get it all\
right.\'94\
\
\'93Well, so long,\'94 I said. \'93Keep out of trouble, Ettore.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t worry about me. I don\'92t drink and I don\'92t run around. I\'92m no\
boozer and whorehound. I know what\'92s good for me.\'94\
\
\'93So long,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m glad you\'92re going to be promoted captain.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t have to wait to be promoted. I\'92m going to be a captain for\
merit of war. You know. Three stars with the crossed swords and crown\
above. That\'92s me.\'94\
\
\'93Good luck.\'94\
\
\'93Good luck. When you going back to the front?\'94\
\
\'93Pretty soon.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92ll see you around.\'94\
\
\'93So long.\'94\
\
\'93So long. Don\'92t take any bad nickels.\'94\
\
I walked on down a back street that led to a cross-cut to the hospital.\
Ettore was twenty-three. He had been brought up by an uncle in San\
Francisco and was visiting his father and mother in Torino when war was\
declared. He had a sister, who had been sent to America with him at the\
same time to live with the uncle, who would graduate from normal school\
this year. He was a legitimate hero who bored every one he met.\
Catherine could not stand him.\
\
\'93We have heroes too,\'94 she said. \'93But usually, darling, they\'92re much\
quieter.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t mind him.\'94\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t mind him if he wasn\'92t so conceited and didn\'92t bore me, and\
bore me, and bore me.\'94\
\
\'93He bores me.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re sweet to say so, darling. But you don\'92t need to. You can picture\
him at the front and you know he\'92s useful but he\'92s so much the type of\
boy I don\'92t care for.\'94\
\
\'93I know.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re awfully sweet to know, and I try and like him but he\'92s a\
dreadful, dreadful boy really.\'94\
\
\'93He said this afternoon he was going to be a captain.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m glad,\'94 said Catherine. \'93That should please him.\'94\
\
\'93Wouldn\'92t you like me to have some more exalted rank?\'94\
\
\'93No, darling. I only want you to have enough rank so that we\'92re admitted\
to the better restaurants.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s just the rank I have.\'94\
\
\'93You have a splendid rank. I don\'92t want you to have any more rank. It\
might go to your head. Oh, darling, I\'92m awfully glad you\'92re not\
conceited. I\'92d have married you even if you were conceited but it\'92s very\
restful to have a husband who\'92s not conceited.\'94\
\
We were talking softly out on the balcony. The moon was supposed to rise\
but there was a mist over the town and it did not come up and in a\
little while it started to drizzle and we came in. Outside the mist\
turned to rain and in a little while it was raining hard and we heard it\
drumming on the roof. I got up and stood at the door to see if it was\
raining in but it wasn\'92t, so I left the door open.\
\
\'93Who else did you see?\'94 Catherine asked.\
\
\'93Mr. and Mrs. Meyers.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re a strange lot.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s supposed to have been in the penitentiary at home. They let him\
out to die.\'94\
\
\'93And he lived happily in Milan forever after.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know how happily.\'94\
\
\'93Happily enough after jail I should think.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s bringing some things here.\'94\
\
\'93She brings splendid things. Were you her dear boy?\'94\
\
\'93One of them.\'94\
\
\'93You are all her dear boys,\'94 Catherine said. \'93She prefers the dear boys.\
Listen to it rain.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s raining hard.\'94\
\
\'93And you\'92ll always love me, won\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93And the rain won\'92t make any difference?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s good. Because I\'92m afraid of the rain.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94 I was sleepy. Outside the rain was falling steadily.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know, darling. I\'92ve always been afraid of the rain.\'94\
\
\'93I like it.\'94\
\
\'93I like to walk in it. But it\'92s very hard on loving.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll love you always.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll love you in the rain and in the snow and in the hail and\'97what\
else is there?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I guess I\'92m sleepy.\'94\
\
\'93Go to sleep, darling, and I\'92ll love you no matter how it is.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re not really afraid of the rain are you?\'94\
\
\'93Not when I\'92m with you.\'94\
\
\'93Why are you afraid of it?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t make me.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I\'92m afraid of the rain because sometimes I see me dead in\
it.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93And sometimes I see you dead in it.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s more likely.\'94\
\
\'93No it\'92s not, darling. Because I can keep you safe. I know I can. But\
nobody can help themselves.\'94\
\
\'93Please stop it. I don\'92t want you to get Scotch and crazy to-night. We\
won\'92t be together much longer.\'94\
\
\'93No, but I am Scotch and crazy. But I\'92ll stop it. It\'92s all nonsense.\'94\
\
\'93Yes it\'92s all nonsense.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all nonsense. It\'92s only nonsense. I\'92m not afraid of the rain. I\'92m\
not afraid of the rain. Oh, oh, God, I wish I wasn\'92t.\'94 She was crying. I\
comforted her and she stopped crying. But outside it kept on raining.\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER XX\
\
One day in the afternoon we went to the races. Ferguson went too and\
Crowell Rodgers, the boy who had been wounded in the eyes by the\
explosion of the shell nose-cap. The girls dressed to go after lunch\
while Crowell and I sat on the bed in his room and read the past\
performances of the horses and the predictions in the racing paper.\
Crowell\'92s head was bandaged and he did not care much about these races\
but read the racing paper constantly and kept track of all the horses\
for something to do. He said the horses were a terrible lot but they\
were all the horses we had. Old Meyers liked him and gave him tips.\
Meyers won on nearly every race but disliked to give tips because it\
brought down the prices. The racing was very crooked. Men who had been\
ruled off the turf everywhere else were racing in Italy. Meyers\'92\
information was good but I hated to ask him because sometimes he did not\
answer, and always you could see it hurt him to tell you, but he felt\
obligated to tell us for some reason and he hated less to tell Crowell.\
Crowell\'92s eyes had been hurt, one was hurt badly, and Meyers had trouble\
with his eyes and so he liked Crowell. Meyers never told his wife what\
horses he was playing and she won or lost, mostly lost, and talked all\
the time.\
\
We four drove out to San Siro in an open carriage. It was a lovely day\
and we drove out through the park and out along the tramway and out of\
town where the road was dusty. There were villas with iron fences and\
big overgrown gardens and ditches with water flowing and green vegetable\
gardens with dust on the leaves. We could look across the plain and see\
farmhouses and the rich green farms with their irrigation ditches and\
the mountains to the north. There were many carriages going into the\
race track and the men at the gate let us in without cards because we\
were in uniform. We left the carriage, bought programmes, and walked\
across the infield and then across the smooth thick turf of the course\
to the paddock. The grand stands were old and made of wood and the\
betting booths were under the stands and in a row out near the stables.\
There was a crowd of soldiers along the fence in the infield. The\
paddock was fairly well filled with people and they were walking the\
horses around in a ring under the trees behind the grand-stand. We saw\
people we knew and got chairs for Ferguson and Catherine and watched the\
horses.\
\
They went around, one after the other, their heads down, the grooms\
leading them. One horse, a purplish black, Crowell swore was dyed that\
color. We watched him and it seemed possible. He had only come out just\
before the bell rang to saddle. We looked him up in the programme from\
the number on the groom\'92s arm and it was listed a black gelding named\
Japalac. The race was for horses that had never won a race worth one\
thousand lire or more. Catherine was sure his color had been changed.\
Ferguson said she could not tell. I thought he looked suspicious. We all\
agreed we ought to back him and pooled one hundred lire. The odds sheets\
showed he would pay thirty-five to one. Crowell went over and bought the\
tickets while we watched the jockeys ride around once more and then go\
out under the trees to the track and gallop slowly up to the turn where\
the start was to be.\
\
We went up in the grand-stand to watch the race. They had no elastic\
barrier at San Siro then and the starter lined up all the horses, they\
looked very small way up the track, and then sent them off with a crack\
of his long whip. They came past us with the black horse well in front\
and on the turn he was running away from the others. I watched them on\
the far side with the glasses and saw the jockey fighting to hold him in\
but he could not hold him and when they came around the turn and into\
the stretch the black horse was fifteen lengths ahead of the others. He\
went way on up and around the turn after the finish.\
\
\'93Isn\'92t it wonderful,\'94 Catherine said. \'93We\'92ll have over three thousand\
lire. He must be a splendid horse.\'94\
\
\'93I hope his color doesn\'92t run,\'94 Crowell said, \'93before they pay off.\'94\
\
\'93He was really a lovely horse,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I wonder if Mr. Meyers\
backed him.\'94\
\
\'93Did you have the winner?\'94 I called to Meyers. He nodded.\
\
\'93I didn\'92t,\'94 Mrs. Meyers said. \'93Who did you children bet on?\'94\
\
\'93Japalac.\'94\
\
\'93Really? He\'92s thirty-five to one!\'94\
\
\'93We liked his color.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t. I thought he looked seedy. They told me not to back him.\'94\
\
\'93He won\'92t pay much,\'94 Meyers said.\
\
\'93He\'92s marked thirty-five to one in the quotes,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93He won\'92t pay much. At the last minute,\'94 Meyers said, \'93they put a lot of\
money on him.\'94\
\
\'93Who?\'94\
\
\'93Kempton and the boys. You\'92ll see. He won\'92t pay two to one.\'94\
\
\'93Then we won\'92t get three thousand lire,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I don\'92t like\
this crooked racing!\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll get two hundred lire.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s nothing. That doesn\'92t do us any good. I thought we were going to\
get three thousand.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s crooked and disgusting,\'94 Ferguson said.\
\
\'93Of course,\'94 said Catherine, \'93if it hadn\'92t been crooked we\'92d never have\
backed him at all. But I would have liked the three thousand lire.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go down and get a drink and see what they pay,\'94 Crowell said. We\
went out to where they posted the numbers and the bell rang to pay off\
and they put up 18.50 after Japalac to win. That meant he paid less than\
even money on a ten-lira bet.\
\
We went to the bar under the grand stand and had a whiskey and soda\
apiece. We ran into a couple of Italians we knew and McAdams, the\
vice-consul, and they came up with us when we joined the girls. The\
Italians were full of manners and McAdams talked to Catherine while we\
went down to bet again. Mr. Meyers was standing near the pari-mutual.\
\
\'93Ask him what he played,\'94 I said to Crowell.\
\
\'93What are you on, Mr. Meyers?\'94 Crowell asked. Meyers took out his\
programme and pointed to the number five with his pencil.\
\
\'93Do you mind if we play him too?\'94 Crowell asked.\
\
\'93Go ahead. Go ahead. But don\'92t tell my wife I gave it to you.\'94\
\
\'93Will you have a drink?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No thanks. I never drink.\'94\
\
We put a hundred lire on number five to win and a hundred to place and\
then had another whiskey and soda apiece. I was feeling very good and we\
picked up a couple more Italians, who each had a drink with us, and went\
back to the girls. These Italians were also very mannered and matched\
manners with the two we had collected before. In a little while no one\
could sit down. I gave the tickets to Catherine.\
\
\'93What horse is it?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. Mr. Meyers\'92 choice.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you even know the name?\'94\
\
\'93No. You can find it on the programme. Number five I think.\'94\
\
\'93You have touching faith,\'94 she said. The number five won but did not pay\
anything. Mr. Meyers was angry.\
\
\'93You have to put up two hundred lire to make twenty,\'94 he said. \'93Twelve\
lire for ten. It\'92s not worth it. My wife lost twenty lire.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll go down with you,\'94 Catherine said to me. The Italians all stood\
up. We went downstairs and out to the paddock.\
\
\'93Do you like this?\'94 Catherine asked.\
\
\'93Yes. I guess I do.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right, I suppose,\'94 she said. \'93But, darling, I can\'92t stand to\
see so many people.\'94\
\
\'93We don\'92t see many.\'94\
\
\'93No. But those Meyers and the man from the bank with his wife and\
daughters\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93He cashes my sight drafts,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes but some one else would if he didn\'92t. Those last four boys were\
awful.\'94\
\
\'93We can stay out here and watch the race from the fence.\'94\
\
\'93That will be lovely. And, darling, let\'92s back a horse we\'92ve never heard\
of and that Mr. Meyers won\'92t be backing.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
We backed a horse named Light For Me that finished fourth in a field of\
five. We leaned on the fence and watched the horses go by, their hoofs\
thudding as they went past, and saw the mountains off in the distance\
and Milan beyond the trees and the fields.\
\
\'93I feel so much cleaner,\'94 Catherine said. The horses were coming back,\
through the gate, wet and sweating, the jockeys quieting them and riding\
up to dismount under the trees.\
\
\'93Wouldn\'92t you like a drink? We could have one out here and see the\
horses.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll get them,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93The boy will bring them,\'94 Catherine said. She put her hand up and the\
boy came out from the Pagoda bar beside the stables. We sat down at a\
round iron table.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you like it better when we\'92re alone?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I felt very lonely when they were all there.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s grand here,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes. It\'92s really a pretty course.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s nice.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t let me spoil your fun, darling. I\'92ll go back whenever you want.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93We\'92ll stay here and have our drink. Then we\'92ll go down\
and stand at the water jump for the steeplechase.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re awfully good to me,\'94 she said.\
\
After we had been alone awhile we were glad to see the others again. We\
had a good time.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XXI\
\
In September the first cool nights came, then the days were cool and the\
leaves on the trees in the park began to turn color and we knew the\
summer was gone. The fighting at the front went very badly and they\
could not take San Gabriele. The fighting on the Bainsizza plateau was\
over and by the middle of the month the fighting for San Gabriele was\
about over too. They could not take it. Ettore was gone back to the\
front. The horses were gone to Rome and there was no more racing.\
Crowell had gone to Rome too, to be sent back to America. There were\
riots twice in the town against the war and bad rioting in Turin. A\
British major at the club told me the Italians had lost one hundred and\
fifty thousand men on the Bainsizza plateau and on San Gabriele. He said\
they had lost forty thousand on the Carso besides. We had a drink and he\
talked. He said the fighting was over for the year down here and that\
the Italians had bitten off more than they could chew. He said the\
offensive in Flanders was going to the bad. If they killed men as they\
did this fall the Allies would be cooked in another year. He said we\
were all cooked but we were all right as long as we did not know it. We\
were all cooked. The thing was not to recognize it. The last country to\
realize they were cooked would win the war. We had another drink. Was I\
on somebody\'92s staff? No. He was. It was all balls. We were alone in the\
club sitting back in one of the big leather sofas. His boots were\
smoothly polished dull leather. They were beautiful boots. He said it\
was all balls. They thought only in divisions and man-power. They all\
squabbled about divisions and only killed them when they got them. They\
were all cooked. The Germans won the victories. By God they were\
soldiers. The old Hun was a soldier. But they were cooked too. We were\
all cooked. I asked about Russia. He said they were cooked already. I\'92d\
soon see they were cooked. Then the Austrians were cooked too. If they\
got some Hun divisions they could do it. Did he think they would attack\
this fall? Of course they would. The Italians were cooked. Everybody\
knew they were cooked. The old Hun would come down through the Trentino\
and cut the railway at Vicenza and then where would the Italians be?\
They tried that in \'92sixteen, I said. Not with Germans. Yes, I said. But\
they probably wouldn\'92t do that, he said. It was too simple. They\'92d try\
something complicated and get royally cooked. I had to go, I said. I had\
to get back to the hospital. \'93Good-by,\'94 he said. Then cheerily, \'93Every\
sort of luck!\'94 There was a great contrast between his world pessimism\
and personal cheeriness.\
\
I stopped at a barber shop and was shaved and went home to the hospital.\
My leg was as well as it would get for a long time. I had been up for\
examination three days before. There were still some treatments to take\
before my course at the Ospedale Maggiore was finished and I walked\
along the side street practising not limping. An old man was cutting\
silhouettes under an arcade. I stopped to watch him. Two girls were\
posing and he cut their silhouettes together, snipping very fast and\
looking at them, his head on one side. The girls were giggling. He\
showed me the silhouettes before he pasted them on white paper and\
handed them to the girls.\
\
\'93They\'92re beautiful,\'94 he said. \'93How about you, Tenente?\'94\
\
The girls went away looking at their silhouettes and laughing. They were\
nice-looking girls. One of them worked in the wine shop across from the\
hospital.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Take your cap off.\'94\
\
\'93No. With it on.\'94\
\
\'93It will not be so beautiful,\'94 the old man said. \'93But,\'94 he brightened,\
\'93it will be more military.\'94\
\
He snipped away at the black paper, then separated the two thicknesses\
and pasted the profiles on a card and handed them to me.\
\
\'93How much?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all right.\'94 He waved his hand. \'93I just made them for you.\'94\
\
\'93Please.\'94 I brought out some coppers. \'93For pleasure.\'94\
\
\'93No. I did them for a pleasure. Give them to your girl.\'94\
\
\'93Many thanks until we meet.\'94\
\
\'93Until I see thee.\'94\
\
I went on to the hospital. There were some letters, an official one, and\
some others. I was to have three weeks\'92 convalescent leave and then\
return to the front. I read it over carefully. Well, that was that. The\
convalescent leave started October fourth when my course was finished.\
Three weeks was twenty-one days. That made October twenty-fifth. I told\
them I would not be in and went to the restaurant a little way up the\
street from the hospital for supper and read my letters and the\
_Corriere Della Sera_ at the table. There was a letter from my\
grandfather, containing family news, patriotic encouragement, a draft\
for two hundred dollars, and a few clippings; a dull letter from the\
priest at our mess, a letter from a man I knew who was flying with the\
French and had gotten in with a wild gang and was telling about it, and\
a note from Rinaldi asking me how long I was going to skulk in Milano\
and what was all the news? He wanted me to bring him phonograph records\
and enclosed a list. I drank a small bottle of chianti with the meal,\
had a coffee afterward with a glass of cognac, finished the paper, put\
my letters in my pocket, left the paper on the table with the tip and\
went out. In my room at the hospital I undressed, put on pajamas and a\
dressing-gown, pulled down the curtains on the door that opened onto the\
balcony and sitting up in bed read Boston papers from a pile Mrs. Meyers\
had left for her boys at the hospital. The Chicago White Sox were\
winning the American League pennant and the New York Giants were leading\
the National League. Babe Ruth was a pitcher then playing for Boston.\
The papers were dull, the news was local and stale, and the war news was\
all old. The American news was all training camps. I was glad I wasn\'92t\
in a training camp. The baseball news was all I could read and I did not\
have the slightest interest in it. A number of papers together made it\
impossible to read with interest. It was not very timely but I read at\
it for a while. I wondered if America really got into the war, if they\
would close down the major leagues. They probably wouldn\'92t. There was\
still racing in Milan and the war could not be much worse. They had\
stopped racing in France. That was where our horse Japalac came from.\
Catherine was not due on duty until nine o\'92clock. I heard her passing\
along the floor when she first came on duty and once saw her pass in the\
hall. She went to several other rooms and finally came into mine.\
\
\'93I\'92m late, darling,\'94 she said. \'93There was a lot to do. How are you?\'94\
\
I told her about my papers and the leave.\
\
\'93That\'92s lovely,\'94 she said. \'93Where do you want to go?\'94\
\
\'93Nowhere. I want to stay here.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s silly. You pick a place to go and I\'92ll come too.\'94\
\
\'93How will you work it?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. But I will.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re pretty wonderful.\'94\
\
\'93No I\'92m not. But life isn\'92t hard to manage when you\'92ve nothing to lose.\'94\
\
\'93How do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing. I was only thinking how small obstacles seemed that once were\
so big.\'94\
\
\'93I should think it might be hard to manage.\'94\
\
\'93No it won\'92t, darling. If necessary I\'92ll simply leave. But it won\'92t come\
to that.\'94\
\
\'93Where should we go?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t care. Anywhere you want. Anywhere we don\'92t know people.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you care where we go?\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92ll like any place.\'94\
\
She seemed upset and taut.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, Catherine?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing. Nothing\'92s the matter.\'94\
\
\'93Yes there is.\'94\
\
\'93No nothing. Really nothing.\'94\
\
\'93I know there is. Tell me, darling. You can tell me.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s nothing.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to. I\'92m afraid I\'92ll make you unhappy or worry you.\'94\
\
\'93No it won\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re sure? It doesn\'92t worry me but I\'92m afraid to worry you.\'94\
\
\'93It won\'92t if it doesn\'92t worry you.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to tell.\'94\
\
\'93Tell it.\'94\
\
\'93Do I have to?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to have a baby, darling. It\'92s almost three months along.\
You\'92re not worried, are you? Please please don\'92t. You mustn\'92t worry.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Is it all right?\'94\
\
\'93Of course.\'94\
\
\'93I did everything. I took everything but it didn\'92t make any difference.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not worried.\'94\
\
\'93I couldn\'92t help it, darling, and I haven\'92t worried about it. You\
mustn\'92t worry or feel badly.\'94\
\
\'93I only worry about you.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it. That\'92s what you mustn\'92t do. People have babies all the time.\
Everybody has babies. It\'92s a natural thing.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re pretty wonderful.\'94\
\
\'93No I\'92m not. But you mustn\'92t mind, darling. I\'92ll try and not make\
trouble for you. I know I\'92ve made trouble now. But haven\'92t I been a good\
girl until now? You never knew it, did you?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93It will all be like that. You simply mustn\'92t worry. I can see you\'92re\
worrying. Stop it. Stop it right away. Wouldn\'92t you like a drink,\
darling? I know a drink always makes you feel cheerful.\'94\
\
\'93No. I feel cheerful. And you\'92re pretty wonderful.\'94\
\
\'93No I\'92m not. But I\'92ll fix everything to be together if you pick out a\
place for us to go. It ought to be lovely in October. We\'92ll have a\
lovely time, darling, and I\'92ll write you every day while you\'92re at the\
front.\'94\
\
\'93Where will you be?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know yet. But somewhere splendid. I\'92ll look after all that.\'94\
\
We were quiet awhile and did not talk. Catherine was sitting on the bed\
and I was looking at her but we did not touch each other. We were apart\
as when some one comes into a room and people are self-conscious. She\
put out her hand and took mine.\
\
\'93You aren\'92t angry are you, darling?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93And you don\'92t feel trapped?\'94\
\
\'93Maybe a little. But not by you.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t mean by me. You mustn\'92t be stupid. I meant trapped at all.\'94\
\
\'93You always feel trapped biologically.\'94\
\
She went away a long way without stirring or removing her hand.\
\
\'93\'91Always\'92 isn\'92t a pretty word.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right. But you see I\'92ve never had a baby and I\'92ve never even\
loved any one. And I\'92ve tried to be the way you wanted and then you talk\
about \'91always.\'92\'94\
\
\'93I could cut off my tongue,\'94 I offered.\
\
\'93Oh, darling!\'94 she came back from wherever she had been. \'93You mustn\'92t\
mind me.\'94 We were both together again and the self-consciousness was\
gone. \'93We really are the same one and we mustn\'92t misunderstand on\
purpose.\'94\
\
\'93We won\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93But people do. They love each other and they misunderstand on purpose\
and they fight and then suddenly they aren\'92t the same one.\'94\
\
\'93We won\'92t fight.\'94\
\
\'93We mustn\'92t. Because there\'92s only us two and in the world there\'92s all\
the rest of them. If anything comes between us we\'92re gone and then they\
have us.\'94\
\
\'93They won\'92t get us,\'94 I said. \'93Because you\'92re too brave. Nothing ever\
happens to the brave.\'94\
\
\'93They die of course.\'94\
\
\'93But only once.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. Who said that?\'94\
\
\'93The coward dies a thousand deaths, the brave but one?\'94\
\
\'93Of course. Who said it?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93He was probably a coward,\'94 she said. \'93He knew a great deal about\
cowards but nothing about the brave. The brave dies perhaps two thousand\
deaths if he\'92s intelligent. He simply doesn\'92t mention them.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. It\'92s hard to see inside the head of the brave.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. That\'92s how they keep that way.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re an authority.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re right, darling. That was deserved.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re brave.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 she said. \'93But I would like to be.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not,\'94 I said, \'93I know where I stand. I\'92ve been out long enough to\
know. I\'92m like a ball-player that bats two hundred and thirty and knows\
he\'92s no better.\'94\
\
\'93What is a ball-player that bats two hundred and thirty? It\'92s awfully\
impressive.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not. It means a mediocre hitter in baseball.\'94\
\
\'93But still a hitter,\'94 she prodded me.\
\
\'93I guess we\'92re both conceited,\'94 I said. \'93But you are brave.\'94\
\
\'93No. But I hope to be.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re both brave,\'94 I said. \'93And I\'92m very brave when I\'92ve had a drink.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re splendid people,\'94 Catherine said. She went over to the armoire\
and brought me the cognac and a glass. \'93Have a drink, darling,\'94 she\
said. \'93You\'92ve been awfully good.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t really want one.\'94\
\
\'93Take one.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94 I poured the water glass a third full of cognac and drank\
it off.\
\
\'93That was very big,\'94 she said. \'93I know brandy is for heroes. But you\
shouldn\'92t exaggerate.\'94\
\
\'93Where will we live after the war?\'94\
\
\'93In an old people\'92s home probably,\'94 she said. \'93For three years I looked\
forward very childishly to the war ending at Christmas. But now I look\
forward till when our son will be a lieutenant commander.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe he\'92ll be a general.\'94\
\
\'93If it\'92s an hundred years\'92 war he\'92ll have time to try both of the\
services.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you want a drink?\'94\
\
\'93No. It always makes you happy, darling, and it only makes me dizzy.\'94\
\
\'93Didn\'92t you ever drink brandy?\'94\
\
\'93No, darling. I\'92m a very old-fashioned wife.\'94\
\
I reached down to the floor for the bottle and poured another drink.\
\
\'93I\'92d better go to have a look at your compatriots,\'94 Catherine said.\
\'93Perhaps you\'92ll read the papers until I come back.\'94\
\
\'93Do you have to go?\'94\
\
\'93Now or later.\'94\
\
\'93All right. Now.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll come back later.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll have finished the papers,\'94 I said.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XXII\
\
It turned cold that night and the next day it was raining. Coming home\
from the Ospedale Maggiore it rained very hard and I was wet when I came\
in. Up in my room the rain was coming down heavily outside on the\
balcony, and the wind blew it against the glass doors. I changed my\
clothing and drank some brandy but the brandy did not taste good. I felt\
sick in the night and in the morning after breakfast I was nauseated.\
\
\'93There is no doubt about it,\'94 the house surgeon said. \'93Look at the\
whites of his eyes, Miss.\'94\
\
Miss Gage looked. They had me look in a glass. The whites of the eyes\
were yellow and it was the jaundice. I was sick for two weeks with it.\
For that reason we did not spend a convalescent leave together. We had\
planned to go to Pallanza on Lago Maggiore. It is nice there in the fall\
when the leaves turn. There are walks you can take and you can troll for\
trout in the lake. It would have been better than Stresa because there\
are fewer people at Pallanza. Stresa is so easy to get to from Milan\
that there are always people you know. There is a nice village at\
Pallanza and you can row out to the islands where the fishermen live and\
there is a restaurant on the biggest island. But we did not go.\
\
One day while I was in bed with jaundice Miss Van Campen came in the\
room, opened the door into the armoire and saw the empty bottles there.\
I had sent a load of them down by the porter and I believe she must have\
seen them going out and come up to find some more. They were mostly\
vermouth bottles, marsala bottles, capri bottles, empty chianti flasks\
and a few cognac bottles. The porter had carried out the large bottles,\
those that had held vermouth, and the straw-covered chianti flasks, and\
left the brandy bottles for the last. It was the brandy bottles and a\
bottle shaped like a bear, which had held k\'fcmmel, that Miss Van Campen\
found. The bear-shaped bottle enraged her particularly. She held it up;\
the bear was sitting up on his haunches with his paws up; there was a\
cork in his glass head and a few sticky crystals at the bottom. I\
laughed.\
\
\'93It was k\'fcmmel,\'94 I said. \'93The best k\'fcmmel comes in those bear-shaped\
bottles. It comes from Russia.\'94\
\
\'93Those are all brandy bottles, aren\'92t they?\'94 Miss Van Campen asked.\
\
\'93I can\'92t see them all,\'94 I said. \'93But they probably are.\'94\
\
\'93How long has this been going on?\'94\
\
\'93I bought them and brought them in myself,\'94 I said. \'93I have had Italian\
officers visit me frequently and I have kept brandy to offer them.\'94\
\
\'93You haven\'92t been drinking it yourself?\'94 she said.\
\
\'93I have also drunk it myself.\'94\
\
\'93Brandy,\'94 she said. \'93Eleven empty bottles of brandy and that bear\
liquid.\'94\
\
\'93K\'fcmmel.\'94\
\
\'93I will send for some one to take them away. Those are all the empty\
bottles you have?\'94\
\
\'93For the moment.\'94\
\
\'93And I was pitying you having jaundice. Pity is something that is wasted\
on you.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose you can\'92t be blamed for not wanting to go back to the front.\
But I should think you would try something more intelligent than\
producing jaundice with alcoholism.\'94\
\
\'93With what?\'94\
\
\'93With alcoholism. You heard me say it.\'94 I did not say anything. \'93Unless\
you find something else I\'92m afraid you will have to go back to the front\
when you are through with your jaundice. I don\'92t believe self-inflicted\
jaundice entitles you to a convalescent leave.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t?\'94\
\
\'93I do not.\'94\
\
\'93Have you ever had jaundice, Miss Van Campen?\'94\
\
\'93No, but I have seen a great deal of it.\'94\
\
\'93You noticed how the patients enjoyed it?\'94\
\
\'93I suppose it is better than the front.\'94\
\
\'93Miss Van Campen,\'94 I said, \'93did you ever know a man who tried to disable\
himself by kicking himself in the scrotum?\'94\
\
Miss Van Campen ignored the actual question. She had to ignore it or\
leave the room. She was not ready to leave because she had disliked me\
for a long time and she was now cashing in.\
\
\'93I have known many men to escape the front through self-inflicted\
wounds.\'94\
\
\'93That wasn\'92t the question. I have seen self-inflicted wounds also. I\
asked you if you had ever known a man who had tried to disable himself\
by kicking himself in the scrotum. Because that is the nearest sensation\
to jaundice and it is a sensation that I believe few women have ever\
experienced. That was why I asked you if you had ever had the jaundice,\
Miss Van Campen, because\'97\'94 Miss Van Campen left the room. Later Miss\
Gage came in.\
\
\'93What did you say to Van Campen? She was furious.\'94\
\
\'93We were comparing sensations. I was going to suggest that she had never\
experienced childbirth\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a fool,\'94 Gage said. \'93She\'92s after your scalp.\'94\
\
\'93She has my scalp,\'94 I said. \'93She\'92s lost me my leave and she might try\
and get me court-martialled. She\'92s mean enough.\'94\
\
\'93She never liked you,\'94 Gage said. \'93What\'92s it about?\'94\
\
\'93She says I\'92ve drunk myself into jaundice so as not to go back to the\
front.\'94\
\
\'93Pooh,\'94 said Gage. \'93I\'92ll swear you\'92ve never taken a drink. Everybody\
will swear you\'92ve never taken a drink.\'94\
\
\'93She found the bottles.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve told you a hundred times to clear out those bottles. Where are\
they now?\'94\
\
\'93In the armoire.\'94\
\
\'93Have you a suitcase?\'94\
\
\'93No. Put them in that rucksack.\'94\
\
Miss Gage packed the bottles in the rucksack. \'93I\'92ll give them to the\
porter,\'94 she said. She started for the door.\
\
\'93Just a minute,\'94 Miss Van Campen said. \'93I\'92ll take those bottles.\'94 She\
had the porter with her. \'93Carry them, please,\'94 she said. \'93I want to show\
them to the doctor when I make my report.\'94\
\
She went down the hall. The porter carried the sack. He knew what was in\
it.\
\
Nothing happened except that I lost my leave.\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XXIII\
\
The night I was to return to the front I sent the porter down to hold a\
seat for me on the train when it came from Turin. The train was to leave\
at midnight. It was made up at Turin and reached Milan about half-past\
ten at night and lay in the station until time to leave. You had to be\
there when it came in, to get a seat. The porter took a friend with him,\
a machine-gunner on leave who worked in a tailor shop, and was sure that\
between them they could hold a place. I gave them money for platform\
tickets and had them take my baggage. There was a big rucksack and two\
musettes.\
\
I said good-by at the hospital at about five o\'92clock and went out. The\
porter had my baggage in his lodge and I told him I would be at the\
station a little before midnight. His wife called me \'93Signorino\'94 and\
cried. She wiped her eyes and shook hands and then cried again. I patted\
her on the back and she cried once more. She had done my mending and was\
a very short dumpy, happy-faced woman with white hair. When she cried\
her whole face went to pieces. I went down to the corner where there was\
a wine shop and waited inside looking out the window. It was dark\
outside and cold and misty. I paid for my coffee and grappa and I\
watched the people going by in the light from the window. I saw\
Catherine and knocked on the window. She looked, saw me and smiled, and\
I went out to meet her. She was wearing a dark blue cape and a soft felt\
hat. We walked along together, along the sidewalk past the wine shops,\
then across the market square and up the street and through the archway\
to the cathedral square. There were street-car tracks and beyond them\
was the cathedral. It was white and wet in the mist. We crossed the tram\
tracks. On our left were the shops, their windows lighted, and the\
entrance to the galleria. There was a fog in the square and when we came\
close to the front of the cathedral it was very big and the stone was\
wet.\
\
\'93Would you like to go in?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Catherine said. We walked along. There was a soldier standing with\
his girl in the shadow of one of the stone buttresses ahead of us and we\
passed them. They were standing tight up against the stone and he had\
put his cape around her.\
\
\'93They\'92re like us,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Nobody is like us,\'94 Catherine said. She did not mean it happily.\
\
\'93I wish they had some place to go.\'94\
\
\'93It mightn\'92t do them any good.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. Everybody ought to have some place to go.\'94\
\
\'93They have the cathedral,\'94 Catherine said. We were past it now. We\
crossed the far end of the square and looked back at the cathedral. It\
was fine in the mist. We were standing in front of the leather goods\
shop. There were riding boots, a rucksack and ski boots in the window.\
Each article was set apart as an exhibit; the rucksack in the centre,\
the riding boots on one side and the ski boots on the other. The leather\
was dark and oiled smooth as a used saddle. The electric light made high\
lights on the dull oiled leather.\
\
\'93We\'92ll ski some time.\'94\
\
\'93In two months there will be skiing at M\'fcrren,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93Let\'92s go there.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 she said. We went on past other windows and turned down a\
side street.\
\
\'93I\'92ve never been this way.\'94\
\
\'93This is the way I go to the hospital,\'94 I said. It was a narrow street\
and we kept on the right-hand side. There were many people passing in\
the fog. There were shops and all the windows were lighted. We looked in\
a window at a pile of cheeses. I stopped in front of an armorer\'92s shop.\
\
\'93Come in a minute. I have to buy a gun.\'94\
\
\'93What sort of gun?\'94\
\
\'93A pistol.\'94 We went in and I unbuttoned my belt and laid it with the\
empty holster on the counter. Two women were behind the counter. The\
women brought out several pistols.\
\
\'93It must fit this,\'94 I said, opening the holster. It was a gray leather\
holster and I had bought it secondhand to wear in the town.\
\
\'93Have they good pistols?\'94 Catherine asked.\
\
\'93They\'92re all about the same. Can I try this one?\'94 I asked the woman.\
\
\'93I have no place now to shoot,\'94 she said. \'93But it is very good. You will\
not make a mistake with it.\'94\
\
I snapped it and pulled back the action. The spring was rather strong\
but it worked smoothly. I sighted it and snapped it again.\
\
\'93It is used,\'94 the woman said. \'93It belonged to an officer who was an\
excellent shot.\'94\
\
\'93Did you sell it to him?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93How did you get it back?\'94\
\
\'93From his orderly.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe you have mine,\'94 I said. \'93How much is this?\'94\
\
\'93Fifty lire. It is very cheap.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I want two extra clips and a box of cartridges.\'94\
\
She brought them from under the counter.\
\
\'93Have you any need for a sword?\'94 she asked. \'93I have some used swords\
very cheap.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to the front,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Oh yes, then you won\'92t need a sword,\'94 she said.\
\
I paid for the cartridges and the pistol, filled the magazine and put it\
in place, put the pistol in my empty holster, filled the extra clips\
with cartridges and put them in the leather slots on the holster and\
then buckled on my belt. The pistol felt heavy on the belt. Still, I\
thought, it was better to have a regulation pistol. You could always get\
shells.\
\
\'93Now we\'92re fully armed,\'94 I said. \'93That was the one thing I had to\
remember to do. Some one got my other one going to the hospital.\'94\
\
\'93I hope it\'92s a good pistol,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93Was there anything else?\'94 the woman asked.\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe so.\'94\
\
\'93The pistol has a lanyard,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93So I noticed.\'94 The woman wanted to sell something else.\
\
\'93You don\'92t need a whistle?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe so.\'94\
\
The woman said good-by and we went out onto the sidewalk. Catherine\
looked in the window. The woman looked out and bowed to us.\
\
\'93What are those little mirrors set in wood for?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re for attracting birds. They twirl them out in the field and\
larks see them and come out and the Italians shoot them.\'94\
\
\'93They are an ingenious people,\'94 Catherine said. \'93You don\'92t shoot larks\
do you, darling, in America?\'94\
\
\'93Not especially.\'94\
\
We crossed the street and started to walk up the other side.\
\
\'93I feel better now,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I felt terrible when we started.\'94\
\
\'93We always feel good when we\'92re together.\'94\
\
\'93We always will be together.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, except that I\'92m going away at midnight.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t think about it, darling.\'94\
\
We walked on up the street. The fog made the lights yellow.\
\
\'93Aren\'92t you tired?\'94 Catherine asked.\
\
\'93How about you?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m all right. It\'92s fun to walk.\'94\
\
\'93But let\'92s not do it too long.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
We turned down a side street where there were no lights and walked in\
the street. I stopped and kissed Catherine. While I kissed her I felt\
her hand on my shoulder. She had pulled my cape around her so it covered\
both of us. We were standing in the street against a high wall.\
\
\'93Let\'92s go some place,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Good,\'94 said Catherine. We walked on along the street until it came out\
onto a wider street that was beside a canal. On the other side was a\
brick wall and buildings. Ahead, down the street, I saw a street-car\
cross a bridge.\
\
\'93We can get a cab up at the bridge,\'94 I said. We stood on the bridge in\
the fog waiting for a carriage. Several street-cars passed, full of\
people going home. Then a carriage came along but there was some one in\
it. The fog was turning to rain.\
\
\'93We could walk or take a tram,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93One will be along,\'94 I said. \'93They go by here.\'94\
\
\'93Here one comes,\'94 she said.\
\
The driver stopped his horse and lowered the metal sign on his meter.\
The top of the carriage was up and there were drops of water on the\
driver\'92s coat. His varnished hat was shining in the wet. We sat back in\
the seat together and the top of the carriage made it dark.\
\
\'93Where did you tell him to go?\'94\
\
\'93To the station. There\'92s a hotel across from the station where we can\
go.\'94\
\
\'93We can go the way we are? Without luggage?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said.\
\
It was a long ride to the station up side streets in the rain.\
\
\'93Won\'92t we have dinner?\'94 Catherine asked. \'93I\'92m afraid I\'92ll be hungry.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll have it in our room.\'94\
\
\'93I haven\'92t anything to wear. I haven\'92t even a nightgown.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll get one,\'94 I said and called to the driver.\
\
\'93Go to the Via Manzoni and up that.\'94 He nodded and turned off to the\
left at the next corner. On the big street Catherine watched for a shop.\
\
\'93Here\'92s a place,\'94 she said. I stopped the driver and Catherine got out,\
walked across the sidewalk and went inside. I sat back in the carriage\
and waited for her. It was raining and I could smell the wet street and\
the horse steaming in the rain. She came back with a package and got in\
and we drove on.\
\
\'93I was very extravagant, darling,\'94 she said, \'93but it\'92s a fine\
nightgown.\'94\
\
At the hotel I asked Catherine to wait in the carriage while I went in\
and spoke to the manager. There were plenty of rooms. Then I went out to\
the carriage, paid the driver, and Catherine and I walked in together.\
The small boy in buttons carried the package. The manager bowed us\
toward the elevator. There was much red plush and brass. The manager\
went up in the elevator with us.\
\
\'93Monsieur and Madame wish dinner in their room?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Will you have the menu brought up?\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You wish something special for dinner. Some game or a soufflet?\'94\
\
The elevator passed three floors with a click each time, then clicked\
and stopped.\
\
\'93What have you as game?\'94\
\
\'93I could get a pheasant, or a woodcock.\'94\
\
\'93A woodcock,\'94 I said. We walked down the corridor. The carpet was worn.\
There were many doors. The manager stopped and unlocked a door and\
opened it.\
\
\'93Here you are. A lovely room.\'94\
\
The small boy in buttons put the package on the table in the centre of\
the room. The manager opened the curtains.\
\
\'93It is foggy outside,\'94 he said. The room was furnished in red plush.\
There were many mirrors, two chairs and a large bed with a satin\
coverlet. A door led to the bathroom.\
\
\'93I will send up the menu,\'94 the manager said. He bowed and went out.\
\
I went to the window and looked out, then pulled a cord that shut the\
thick plush curtains. Catherine was sitting on the bed, looking at the\
cut glass chandelier. She had taken her hat off and her hair shone under\
the light. She saw herself in one of the mirrors and put her hands to\
her hair. I saw her in three other mirrors. She did not look happy. She\
let her cape fall on the bed.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, darling?\'94\
\
\'93I never felt like a whore before,\'94 she said. I went over to the window\
and pulled the curtain aside and looked out. I had not thought it would\
be like this.\
\
\'93You\'92re not a whore.\'94\
\
\'93I know it, darling. But it isn\'92t nice to feel like one.\'94 Her voice was\
dry and flat.\
\
\'93This was the best hotel we could get in,\'94 I said. I looked out the\
window. Across the square were the lights of the station. There were\
carriages going by on the street and I saw the trees in the park. The\
lights from the hotel shone on the wet pavement. Oh, hell, I thought, do\
we have to argue now?\
\
\'93Come over here please,\'94 Catherine said. The flatness was all gone out\
of her voice. \'93Come over, please. I\'92m a good girl again.\'94 I looked over\
at the bed. She was smiling.\
\
I went over and sat on the bed beside her and kissed her.\
\
\'93You\'92re my good girl.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m certainly yours,\'94 she said.\
\
After we had eaten we felt fine, and then after, we felt very happy and\
in a little time the room felt like our own home. My room at the\
hospital had been our own home and this room was our home too in the\
same way.\
\
Catherine wore my tunic over her shoulders while we ate. We were very\
hungry and the meal was good and we drank a bottle of Capri and a bottle\
of St. Estephe. I drank most of it but Catherine drank some and it made\
her feel splendid. For dinner we had a woodcock with souffl\'e9 potatoes\
and pur\'e9e de marron, a salad, and zabaione for dessert.\
\
\'93It\'92s a fine room,\'94 Catherine said. \'93It\'92s a lovely room. We should have\
stayed here all the time we\'92ve been in Milan.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a funny room. But it\'92s nice.\'94\
\
\'93Vice is a wonderful thing,\'94 Catherine said. \'93The people who go in for\
it seem to have good taste about it. The red plush is really fine. It\'92s\
just the thing. And the mirrors are very attractive.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a lovely girl.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know how a room like this would be for waking up in the\
morning. But it\'92s really a splendid room.\'94 I poured another glass of St.\
Estephe.\
\
\'93I wish we could do something really sinful,\'94 Catherine said.\
\'93Everything we do seems so innocent and simple. I can\'92t believe we do\
anything wrong.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a grand girl.\'94\
\
\'93I only feel hungry. I get terribly hungry.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a fine simple girl,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I am a simple girl. No one ever understood it except you.\'94\
\
\'93Once when I first met you I spent an afternoon thinking how we would go\
to the Hotel Cavour together and how it would be.\'94\
\
\'93That was awfully cheeky of you. This isn\'92t the Cavour is it?\'94\
\
\'93No. They wouldn\'92t have taken us in there.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92ll take us in some time. But that\'92s how we differ, darling. I\
never thought about anything.\'94\
\
\'93Didn\'92t you ever at all?\'94\
\
\'93A little,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93Oh you\'92re a lovely girl.\'94\
\
I poured another glass of wine.\
\
\'93I\'92m a very simple girl,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93I didn\'92t think so at first. I thought you were a crazy girl.\'94\
\
\'93I was a little crazy. But I wasn\'92t crazy in any complicated manner. I\
didn\'92t confuse you did I, darling?\'94\
\
\'93Wine is a grand thing,\'94 I said. \'93It makes you forget all the bad.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s lovely,\'94 said Catherine. \'93But it\'92s given my father gout very\
badly.\'94\
\
\'93Have you a father?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Catherine. \'93He has gout. You won\'92t ever have to meet him.\
Haven\'92t you a father?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93A step-father.\'94\
\
\'93Will I like him?\'94\
\
\'93You won\'92t have to meet him.\'94\
\
\'93We have such a fine time,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I don\'92t take any interest\
in anything else any more. I\'92m so very happy married to you.\'94\
\
The waiter came and took away the things. After a while we were very\
still and we could hear the rain. Down below on the street a motor car\
honked.\
\
               \'93\'91But at my back I always hear\
               Time\'92s wing\'e8d chariot hurrying near,\'92\'94\
\
I said.\
\
\'93I know that poem,\'94 Catherine said. \'93It\'92s by Marvell. But it\'92s about a\
girl who wouldn\'92t live with a man.\'94\
\
My head felt very clear and cold and I wanted to talk facts.\
\
\'93Where will you have the baby?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. The best place I can find.\'94\
\
\'93How will you arrange it?\'94\
\
\'93The best way I can. Don\'92t worry, darling. We may have several babies\
before the war is over.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s nearly time to go.\'94\
\
\'93I know. You can make it time if you want.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Then don\'92t worry, darling. You were fine until now and now you\'92re\
worrying.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t. How often will you write?\'94\
\
\'93Every day. Do they read your letters?\'94\
\
\'93They can\'92t read English enough to hurt any.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll make them very confusing,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93But not too confusing.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll just make them a little confusing.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m afraid we have to start to go.\'94\
\
\'93All right, darling.\'94\
\
\'93I hate to leave our fine house.\'94\
\
\'93So do I.\'94\
\
\'93But we have to go.\'94\
\
\'93All right. But we\'92re never settled in our home very long.\'94\
\
\'93We will be.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll have a fine home for you when you come back.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe I\'92ll be back right away.\'94\
\
\'93Perhaps you\'92ll be hurt just a little in the foot.\'94\
\
\'93Or the lobe of the ear.\'94\
\
\'93No I want your ears the way they are.\'94\
\
\'93And not my feet?\'94\
\
\'93Your feet have been hit already.\'94\
\
\'93We have to go, darling. Really.\'94\
\
\'93All right. You go first.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XXIV\
\
We walked down the stairs instead of taking the elevator. The carpet on\
the stairs was worn. I had paid for the dinner when it came up and the\
waiter, who had brought it, was sitting on a chair near the door. He\
jumped up and bowed and I went with him into the side room and paid the\
bill for the room. The manager had remembered me as a friend and refused\
payment in advance but when he retired he had remembered to have the\
waiter stationed at the door so that I should not get out without\
paying. I suppose that had happened; even with his friends. One had so\
many friends in a war.\
\
I asked the waiter to get us a carriage and he took Catherine\'92s package\
that I was carrying and went out with an umbrella. Outside through the\
window we saw him crossing the street in the rain. We stood in the side\
room and looked out the window.\
\
\'93How do you feel, Cat?\'94\
\
\'93Sleepy.\'94\
\
\'93I feel hollow and hungry.\'94\
\
\'93Have you anything to eat?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, in my musette.\'94\
\
I saw the carriage coming. It stopped, the horse\'92s head hanging in the\
rain, and the waiter stepped out, opened his umbrella, and came toward\
the hotel. We met him at the door and walked out under the umbrella down\
the wet walk to the carriage at the curb. Water was running in the\
gutter.\
\
\'93There is your package on the seat,\'94 the waiter said. He stood with the\
umbrella until we were in and I had tipped him.\
\
\'93Many thanks. Pleasant journey,\'94 he said. The coachman lifted the reins\
and the horse started. The waiter turned away under the umbrella and\
went toward the hotel. We drove down the street and turned to the left,\
then came around to the right in front of the station. There were two\
carabinieri standing under the light just out of the rain. The light\
shone on their hats. The rain was clear and transparent against the\
light from the station. A porter came out from under the shelter of the\
station, his shoulders up against the rain.\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93Thanks. I don\'92t need thee.\'94\
\
He went back under the shelter of the archway. I turned to Catherine.\
Her face was in the shadow from the hood of the carriage.\
\
\'93We might as well say good-by.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t go in?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by, Cat.\'94\
\
\'93Will you tell him the hospital?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
I told the driver the address to drive to. He nodded.\
\
\'93Good-by,\'94 I said. \'93Take good care of yourself and young Catherine.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by, darling.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by,\'94 I said. I stepped out into the rain and the carriage started.\
Catherine leaned out and I saw her face in the light. She smiled and\
waved. The carriage went up the street, Catherine pointed in toward the\
archway. I looked, there were only the two carabinieri and the archway.\
I realized she meant for me to get in out of the rain. I went in and\
stood and watched the carriage turn the corner. Then I started through\
the station and down the runway to the train.\
\
The porter was on the platform looking for me. I followed him into the\
train, crowding past people and along the aisle and in through a door to\
where the machine-gunner sat in the corner of a full compartment. My\
rucksack and musettes were above his head on the luggage rack. There\
were many men standing in the corridor and the men in the compartment\
all looked at us when we came in. There were not enough places in the\
train and every one was hostile. The machine-gunner stood up for me to\
sit down. Some one tapped me on the shoulder. I looked around. It was a\
very tall gaunt captain of artillery with a red scar along his jaw. He\
had looked through the glass on the corridor and then come in.\
\
\'93What do you say?\'94 I asked. I had turned and faced him. He was taller\
than I and his face was very thin under the shadow of his cap-visor and\
the scar was new and shiny. Every one in the compartment was looking at\
me.\
\
\'93You can\'92t do that,\'94 he said. \'93You can\'92t have a soldier save you a\
place.\'94\
\
\'93I have done it.\'94\
\
He swallowed and I saw his Adam\'92s apple go up and then down. The\
machine-gunner stood in front of the place. Other men looked in through\
the glass. No one in the compartment said anything.\
\
\'93You have no right to do that. I was here two hours before you came.\'94\
\
\'93What do you want?\'94\
\
\'93The seat.\'94\
\
\'93So do I.\'94\
\
I watched his face and could feel the whole compartment against me. I\
did not blame them. He was in the right. But I wanted the seat. Still no\
one said anything.\
\
Oh, hell, I thought.\
\
\'93Sit down, Signor Capitano,\'94 I said. The machine-gunner moved out of the\
way and the tall captain sat down. He looked at me. His face seemed\
hurt. But he had the seat. \'93Get my things,\'94 I said to the\
machine-gunner. We went out in the corridor. The train was full and I\
knew there was no chance of a place. I gave the porter and the\
machine-gunner ten lire apiece. They went down the corridor and outside\
on the platform looking in the windows but there were no places.\
\
\'93Maybe some will get off at Brescia,\'94 the porter said.\
\
\'93More will get on at Brescia,\'94 said the machine-gunner. I said good-by\
to them and we shook hands and they left. They both felt badly. Inside\
the train we were all standing in the corridor when the train started. I\
watched the lights of the station and the yards as we went out. It was\
still raining and soon the windows were wet and you could not see out.\
Later I slept on the floor of the corridor; first putting my pocket-book\
with my money and papers in it inside my shirt and trousers so that it\
was inside the leg of my breeches. I slept all night, waking at Brescia\
and Verona when more men got on the train, but going back to sleep at\
once. I had my head on one of the musettes and my arms around the other\
and I could feel the pack and they could all walk over me if they\
wouldn\'92t step on me. Men were sleeping on the floor all down the\
corridor. Others stood holding on to the window rods or leaning against\
the doors. That train was always crowded.\
\
\
\
\
                                BOOK III\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XXV\
\
Now in the fall the trees were all bare and the roads were muddy. I rode\
to Gorizia from Udine on a camion. We passed other camions on the road\
and I looked at the country. The mulberry trees were bare and the fields\
were brown. There were wet dead leaves on the road from the rows of bare\
trees and men were working on the road, tamping stone in the ruts from\
piles of crushed stone along the side of the road between the trees. We\
saw the town with a mist over it that cut off the mountains. We crossed\
the river and I saw that it was running high. It had been raining in the\
mountains. We came into the town past the factories and then the houses\
and villas and I saw that many more houses had been hit. On a narrow\
street we passed a British Red Cross ambulance. The driver wore a cap\
and his face was thin and very tanned. I did not know him. I got down\
from the camion in the big square in front of the Town Major\'92s house,\
the driver handed down my rucksack and I put it on and swung on the two\
musettes and walked to our villa. It did not feel like a homecoming.\
\
I walked down the damp gravel driveway looking at the villa through the\
trees. The windows were all shut but the door was open. I went in and\
found the major sitting at a table in the bare room with maps and typed\
sheets of paper on the wall.\
\
\'93Hello,\'94 he said. \'93How are you?\'94 He looked older and drier.\
\
\'93I\'92m good,\'94 I said. \'93How is everything?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all over,\'94 he said. \'93Take off your kit and sit down.\'94 I put my\
pack and the two musettes on the floor and my cap on the pack. I brought\
the other chair over from the wall and sat down by the desk.\
\
\'93It\'92s been a bad summer,\'94 the major said. \'93Are you strong now?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Did you ever get the decorations?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I got them fine. Thank you very much.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s see them.\'94\
\
I opened my cape so he could see the two ribbons.\
\
\'93Did you get the boxes with the medals?\'94\
\
\'93No. Just the papers.\'94\
\
\'93The boxes will come later. That takes more time.\'94\
\
\'93What do you want me to do?\'94\
\
\'93The cars are all away. There are six up north at Caporetto. You know\
Caporetto?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. I remembered it as a little white town with a campanile\
in a valley. It was a clean little town and there was a fine fountain in\
the square.\
\
\'93They are working from there. There are many sick now. The fighting is\
over.\'94\
\
\'93Where are the others?\'94\
\
\'93There are two up in the mountains and four still on the Bainsizza. The\
other two ambulance sections are in the Carso with the third army.\'94\
\
\'93What do you wish me to do?\'94\
\
\'93You can go and take over the four cars on the Bainsizza if you like.\
Gino has been up there a long time. You haven\'92t seen it up there, have\
you?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93It was very bad. We lost three cars.\'94\
\
\'93I heard about it.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, Rinaldi wrote you.\'94\
\
\'93Where is Rinaldi?\'94\
\
\'93He is here at the hospital. He has had a summer and fall of it.\'94\
\
\'93I believe it.\'94\
\
\'93It has been bad,\'94 the major said. \'93You couldn\'92t believe how bad it\'92s\
been. I\'92ve often thought you were lucky to be hit when you were.\'94\
\
\'93I know I was.\'94\
\
\'93Next year will be worse,\'94 the major said. \'93Perhaps they will attack\
now. They say they are to attack but I can\'92t believe it. It is too late.\
You saw the river?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. It\'92s high already.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe they will attack now that the rains have started. We\
will have the snow soon. What about your countrymen? Will there be other\
Americans besides yourself?\'94\
\
\'93They are training an army of ten million.\'94\
\
\'93I hope we get some of them. But the French will hog them all. We\'92ll\
never get any down here. All right. You stay here to-night and go out\
to-morrow with the little car and send Gino back. I\'92ll send somebody\
with you that knows the road. Gino will tell you everything. They are\
shelling quite a little still but it is all over. You will want to see\
the Bainsizza.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m glad to see it. I am glad to be back with you again, Signor\
Maggiore.\'94\
\
He smiled. \'93You are very good to say so. I am very tired of this war. If\
I was away I do not believe I would come back.\'94\
\
\'93Is it so bad?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. It is so bad and worse. Go get cleaned up and find your friend\
Rinaldi.\'94\
\
I went out and carried my bags up the stairs. Rinaldi was not in the\
room but his things were there and I sat down on the bed and unwrapped\
my puttees and took the shoe off my right foot. Then I lay back on the\
bed. I was tired and my right foot hurt. It seemed silly to lie on the\
bed with one shoe off, so I sat up and unlaced the other shoe and\
dropped it on the floor, then lay back on the blanket again. The room\
was stuffy with the window closed but I was too tired to get up and open\
it. I saw my things were all in one corner of the room. Outside it was\
getting dark. I lay on the bed and thought about Catherine and waited\
for Rinaldi. I was going to try not to think about Catherine except at\
night before I went to sleep. But now I was tired and there was nothing\
to do, so I lay and thought about her. I was thinking about her when\
Rinaldi came in. He looked just the same. Perhaps he was a little\
thinner.\
\
\'93Well, baby,\'94 he said. I sat up on the bed. He came over, sat down and\
put his arm around me. \'93Good old baby.\'94 He whacked me on the back and I\
held both his arms.\
\
\'93Old baby,\'94 he said. \'93Let me see your knee.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll have to take off my pants.\'94\
\
\'93Take off your pants, baby. We\'92re all friends here. I want to see what\
kind of a job they did.\'94 I stood up, took off the breeches and pulled\
off the knee-brace. Rinaldi sat on the floor and bent the knee gently\
back and forth. He ran his finger along the scar; put his thumbs\
together over the kneecap and rocked the knee gently with his fingers.\
\
\'93Is that all the articulation you have?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a crime to send you back. They ought to get complete\
articulation.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lot better than it was. It was stiff as a board.\'94\
\
Rinaldi bent it more. I watched his hands. He had fine surgeon\'92s hands.\
I looked at the top of his head, his hair shiny and parted smoothly. He\
bent the knee too far.\
\
\'93Ouch!\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You ought to have more treatment on it with the machines,\'94 Rinaldi\
said.\
\
\'93It\'92s better than it was.\'94\
\
\'93I see that, baby. This is something I know more about than you.\'94 He\
stood up and sat down on the bed. \'93The knee itself is a good job.\'94 He\
was through with the knee. \'93Tell me all about everything.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s nothing to tell,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ve led a quiet life.\'94\
\
\'93You act like a married man,\'94 he said. \'93What\'92s the matter with you?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing,\'94 I said. \'93What\'92s the matter with you?\'94\
\
\'93This war is killing me,\'94 Rinaldi said, \'93I am very depressed by it.\'94 He\
folded his hands over his knee.\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter? Can\'92t I even have human impulses?\'94\
\
\'93No. I can see you\'92ve been having a fine time. Tell me.\'94\
\
\'93All summer and all fall I\'92ve operated. I work all the time. I do\
everybody\'92s work. All the hard ones they leave to me. By God, baby, I am\
becoming a lovely surgeon.\'94\
\
\'93That sounds better.\'94\
\
\'93I never think. No, by God, I don\'92t think; I operate.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s right.\'94\
\
\'93But now, baby, it\'92s all over. I don\'92t operate now and I feel like hell.\
This is a terrible war, baby. You believe me when I say it. Now you\
cheer me up. Did you bring the phonograph records?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
They were wrapped in paper in a cardboard box in my rucksack. I was too\
tired to get them out.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you feel good yourself, baby?\'94\
\
\'93I feel like hell.\'94\
\
\'93This war is terrible,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93Come on. We\'92ll both get drunk and\
be cheerful. Then we\'92ll go get the ashes dragged. Then we\'92ll feel fine.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve had the jaundice,\'94 I said, \'93and I can\'92t get drunk.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, baby, how you\'92ve come back to me. You come back serious and with a\
liver. I tell you this war is a bad thing. Why did we make it anyway?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll have a drink. I don\'92t want to get drunk but we\'92ll have a drink.\'94\
\
Rinaldi went across the room to the washstand and brought back two\
glasses and a bottle of cognac.\
\
\'93It\'92s Austrian cognac,\'94 he said. \'93Seven stars. It\'92s all they captured on\
San Gabriele.\'94\
\
\'93Were you up there?\'94\
\
\'93No. I haven\'92t been anywhere. I\'92ve been here all the time operating.\
Look, baby, this is your old toothbrushing glass. I kept it all the time\
to remind me of you.\'94\
\
\'93To remind you to brush your teeth.\'94\
\
\'93No. I have my own too. I kept this to remind me of you trying to brush\
away the Villa Rossa from your teeth in the morning, swearing and eating\
aspirin and cursing harlots. Every time I see that glass I think of you\
trying to clean your conscience with a toothbrush.\'94 He came over to the\
bed. \'93Kiss me once and tell me you\'92re not serious.\'94\
\
\'93I never kiss you. You\'92re an ape.\'94\
\
\'93I know, you are the fine good Anglo-Saxon boy. I know. You are the\
remorse boy, I know. I will wait till I see the Anglo-Saxon brushing\
away harlotry with a toothbrush.\'94\
\
\'93Put some cognac in the glass.\'94\
\
We touched glasses and drank. Rinaldi laughed at me.\
\
\'93I will get you drunk and take out your liver and put you in a good\
Italian liver and make you a man again.\'94\
\
I held the glass for some more cognac. It was dark outside now. Holding\
the glass of cognac, I went over and opened the window. The rain had\
stopped falling. It was colder outside and there was a mist in the\
trees.\
\
\'93Don\'92t throw the cognac out the window,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93If you can\'92t\
drink it give it to me.\'94\
\
\'93Go something yourself,\'94 I said. I was glad to see Rinaldi again. He had\
spent two years teasing me and I had always liked it. We understood each\
other very well.\
\
\'93Are you married?\'94 he asked from the bed. I was standing against the\
wall by the window.\
\
\'93Not yet.\'94\
\
\'93Are you in love?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93With that English girl?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Poor baby. Is she good to you?\'94\
\
\'93Of course.\'94\
\
\'93I mean is she good to you practically speaking?\'94\
\
\'93Shut up.\'94\
\
\'93I will. You will see I am a man of extreme delicacy. Does she\'97\'97?\'94\
\
\'93Rinin,\'94 I said. \'93Please shut up. If you want to be my friend, shut up.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t _want_ to be your friend, baby. I _am_ your friend.\'94\
\
\'93Then shut up.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
I went over to the bed and sat down beside Rinaldi. He was holding his\
glass and looking at the floor.\
\
\'93You see how it is, Rinin?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. All my life I encounter sacred subjects. But very few with\
you. I suppose you must have them too.\'94 He looked at the floor.\
\
\'93You haven\'92t any?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Not any?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93I can say this about your mother and that about your sister?\'94\
\
\'93And that about _your sister_,\'94 Rinaldi said swiftly. We both laughed.\
\
\'93The old superman,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I am jealous maybe,\'94 Rinaldi said.\
\
\'93No, you\'92re not.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t mean like that. I mean something else. Have you any married\
friends?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I haven\'92t,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93Not if they love each other.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93They don\'92t like me.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93I am the snake. I am the snake of reason.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re getting it mixed. The apple was reason.\'94\
\
\'93No, it was the snake.\'94 He was more cheerful.\
\
\'93You are better when you don\'92t think so deeply,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I love you, baby,\'94 he said. \'93You puncture me when I become a great\
Italian thinker. But I know many things I can\'92t say. I know more than\
you.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. You do.\'94\
\
\'93But you will have a better time. Even with remorse you will have a\
better time.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. That is true. Already I am only happy when I am working.\'94 He\
looked at the floor again.\
\
\'93You\'92ll get over that.\'94\
\
\'93No. I only like two other things; one is bad for my work and the other\
is over in half an hour or fifteen minutes. Sometimes less.\'94\
\
\'93Sometimes a good deal less.\'94\
\
\'93Perhaps I have improved, baby. You do not know. But there are only the\
two things and my work.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll get other things.\'94\
\
\'93No. We never get anything. We are born with all we have and we never\
learn. We never get anything new. We all start complete. You should be\
glad not to be a Latin.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s no such thing as a Latin. That is \'91Latin\'92 thinking. You are so\
proud of your defects.\'94 Rinaldi looked up and laughed.\
\
\'93We\'92ll stop, baby. I am tired from thinking so much.\'94 He had looked\
tired when he came in. \'93It\'92s nearly time to eat. I\'92m glad you\'92re back.\
You are my best friend and my war brother.\'94\
\
\'93When do the war brothers eat?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Right away. We\'92ll drink once more for your liver\'92s sake.\'94\
\
\'93Like Saint Paul.\'94\
\
\'93You are inaccurate. That was wine and the stomach. Take a little wine\
for your stomach\'92s sake.\'94\
\
\'93Whatever you have in the bottle,\'94 I said. \'93For any sake you mention.\'94\
\
\'93To your girl,\'94 Rinaldi said. He held out his glass.\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll never say a dirty thing about her.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t strain yourself.\'94\
\
He drank off the cognac. \'93I am pure,\'94 he said. \'93I am like you, baby. I\
will get an English girl too. As a matter of fact I knew your girl first\
but she was a little tall for me. A tall girl for a sister,\'94 he quoted.\
\
\'93You have a lovely pure mind,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Haven\'92t I? That\'92s why they call me Rinaldo Purissimo.\'94\
\
\'93Rinaldo Sporchissimo.\'94\
\
\'93Come on, baby, we\'92ll go down to eat while my mind is still pure.\'94\
\
I washed, combed my hair and we went down the stairs. Rinaldi was a\
little drunk. In the room where we ate, the meal was not quite ready.\
\
\'93I\'92ll go get the bottle,\'94 Rinaldi said. He went off up the stairs. I sat\
at the table and he came back with the bottle and poured us each a half\
tumbler of cognac.\
\
\'93Too much,\'94 I said and held up the glass and sighted at the lamp on the\
table.\
\
\'93Not for an empty stomach. It is a wonderful thing. It burns out the\
stomach completely. Nothing is worse for you.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Self-destruction day by day,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93It ruins the stomach and\
makes the hand shake. Just the thing for a surgeon.\'94\
\
\'93You recommend it?\'94\
\
\'93Heartily. I use no other. Drink it down, baby, and look forward to\
being sick.\'94\
\
I drank half the glass. In the hall I could hear the orderly calling.\
\'93Soup! Soup is ready!\'94\
\
The major came in, nodded to us and sat down. He seemed very small at\
table.\
\
\'93Is this all we are?\'94 he asked. The orderly put the soup bowl down and\
he ladled out a plate full.\
\
\'93We are all,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93Unless the priest comes. If he knew\
Federico was here he would be here.\'94\
\
\'93Where is he?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93He\'92s at 307,\'94 the major said. He was busy with his soup. He wiped his\
mouth, wiping his upturned gray mustache carefully. \'93He will come I\
think. I called them and left word to tell him you were here.\'94\
\
\'93I miss the noise of the mess,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes, it\'92s quiet,\'94 the major said.\
\
\'93I will be noisy,\'94 said Rinaldi.\
\
\'93Drink some wine, Enrico,\'94 said the major. He filled my glass. The\
spaghetti came in and we were all busy. We were finishing the spaghetti\
when the priest came in. He was the same as ever, small and brown and\
compact looking. I stood up and we shook hands. He put his hand on my\
shoulder.\
\
\'93I came as soon as I heard,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Sit down,\'94 the major said. \'93You\'92re late.\'94\
\
\'93Good-evening, priest,\'94 Rinaldi said, using the English word. They had\
taken that up from the priest-baiting captain, who spoke a little\
English. \'93Good-evening, Rinaldo,\'94 the priest said. The orderly brought\
him soup but he said he would start with the spaghetti.\
\
\'93How are you?\'94 he asked me.\
\
\'93Fine,\'94 I said. \'93How have things been?\'94\
\
\'93Drink some wine, priest,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93Take a little wine for your\
stomach\'92s sake. That\'92s Saint Paul, you know.\'94\
\
\'93Yes I know,\'94 said the priest politely. Rinaldi filled his glass.\
\
\'93That Saint Paul,\'94 said Rinaldi. \'93He\'92s the one who makes all the\
trouble.\'94 The priest looked at me and smiled. I could see that the\
baiting did not touch him now.\
\
\'93That Saint Paul,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93He was a rounder and a chaser and then\
when he was no longer hot he said it was no good. When he was finished\
he made the rules for us who are still hot. Isn\'92t it true, Federico?\'94\
\
The major smiled. We were eating meat stew now.\
\
\'93I never discuss a Saint after dark,\'94 I said. The priest looked up from\
the stew and smiled at me.\
\
\'93There he is, gone over with the priest,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93Where are all\
the good old priest-baiters? Where is Cavalcanti? Where is Brundi? Where\
is Cesare? Do I have to bait this priest alone without support?\'94\
\
\'93He is a good priest,\'94 said the major.\
\
\'93He is a good priest,\'94 said Rinaldi. \'93But still a priest. I try to make\
the mess like the old days. I want to make Federico happy. To hell with\
you, priest!\'94\
\
I saw the major look at him and notice that he was drunk. His thin face\
was white. The line of his hair was very black against the white of his\
forehead.\
\
\'93It\'92s all right, Rinaldo,\'94 said the priest. \'93It\'92s all right.\'94\
\
\'93To hell with you,\'94 said Rinaldi. \'93To hell with the whole damn\
business.\'94 He sat back in his chair.\
\
\'93He\'92s been under a strain and he\'92s tired,\'94 the major said to me. He\
finished his meat and wiped up the gravy with a piece of bread.\
\
\'93I don\'92t give a damn,\'94 Rinaldi said to the table. \'93To hell with the\
whole business.\'94 He looked defiantly around the table, his eyes flat,\
his face pale.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93To hell with the whole damn business.\'94\
\
\'93No, no,\'94 said Rinaldi. \'93You can\'92t do it. You can\'92t do it. I say you\
can\'92t do it. You\'92re dry and you\'92re empty and there\'92s nothing else.\
There\'92s nothing else I tell you. Not a damned thing. I know, when I stop\
working.\'94\
\
The priest shook his head. The orderly took away the stew dish.\
\
\'93What are you eating meat for?\'94 Rinaldi turned to the priest. \'93Don\'92 you\
know it\'92s Friday?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s Thursday,\'94 the priest said.\
\
\'93It\'92s a lie. It\'92s Friday. You\'92re eating the body of our Lord. It\'92s\
God-meat. I know. It\'92s dead Austrian. That\'92s what you\'92re eating.\'94\
\
\'93The white meat is from officers,\'94 I said, completing the old joke.\
\
Rinaldi laughed. He filled his glass.\
\
\'93Don\'92t mind me,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m just a little crazy.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to have a leave,\'94 the priest said.\
\
The major shook his head at him. Rinaldi looked at the priest.\
\
\'93You think I ought to have a leave?\'94\
\
The major shook his head at the priest. Rinaldi was looking at the\
priest.\
\
\'93Just as you like,\'94 the priest said. \'93Not if you don\'92t want.\'94\
\
\'93To hell with you,\'94 Rinaldi said. \'93They try to get rid of me. Every\
night they try to get rid of me. I fight them off. What if I have it.\
Everybody has it. The whole world\'92s got it. First,\'94 he went on, assuming\
the manner of a lecturer, \'93it\'92s a little pimple. Then we notice a rash\
between the shoulders. Then we notice nothing at all. We put our faith\
in mercury.\'94\
\
\'93Or salvarsan,\'94 the major interrupted quietly.\
\
\'93A mercurial product,\'94 Rinaldi said. He acted very elated now. \'93I know\
something worth two of that. Good old priest,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92ll never\
get it. Baby will get it. It\'92s an industrial accident. It\'92s a simple\
industrial accident.\'94\
\
The orderly brought in the sweet and coffee. The dessert was a sort of\
black bread pudding with hard sauce. The lamp was smoking; the black\
smoke going close up inside the chimney.\
\
\'93Bring two candles and take away the lamp,\'94 the major said. The orderly\
brought two lighted candles each in a saucer, and took out the lamp\
blowing it out. Rinaldi was quiet now. He seemed all right. We talked\
and after the coffee we all went out into the hall.\
\
\'93You want to talk to the priest. I have to go in the town,\'94 Rinaldi\
said. \'93Good-night, priest.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night, Rinaldo,\'94 the priest said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll see you Fredi,\'94 Rinaldi said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93Come in early.\'94 He made a face and went out the door.\
The major was standing with us. \'93He\'92s very tired and overworked,\'94 he\
said. \'93He thinks too he has syphilis. I don\'92t believe it but he may\
have. He is treating himself for it. Good-night. You will leave before\
daylight, Enrico?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by then,\'94 he said. \'93Good luck. Peduzzi will wake you and go with\
you.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by, Signor Maggiore.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by. They talk about an Austrian offensive but I don\'92t believe it.\
I hope not. But anyway it won\'92t be here. Gino will tell you everything.\
The telephone works well now.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll call regularly.\'94\
\
\'93Please do. Good-night. Don\'92t let Rinaldi drink so much brandy.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll try not to.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night, priest.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night, Signor Maggiore.\'94\
\
He went off into his office.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XXVI\
\
I went to the door and looked out. It had stopped raining but there was\
a mist.\
\
\'93Should we go upstairs?\'94 I asked the priest.\
\
\'93I can only stay a little while.\'94\
\
\'93Come on up.\'94\
\
We climbed the stairs and went into my room. I lay down on Rinaldi\'92s\
bed. The priest sat on my cot that the orderly had set up. It was dark\
in the room.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he said, \'93how are you really?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m all right. I\'92m tired to-night.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m tired too, but from no cause.\'94\
\
\'93What about the war?\'94\
\
\'93I think it will be over soon. I don\'92t know why, but I feel it.\'94\
\
\'93How do you feel it?\'94\
\
\'93You know how your major is? Gentle? Many people are like that now.\'94\
\
\'93I feel that way myself,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93It has been a terrible summer,\'94 said the priest. He was surer of\
himself now than when I had gone away. \'93You cannot believe how it has\
been. Except that you have been there and you know how it can be. Many\
people have realized the war this summer. Officers whom I thought could\
never realize it realize it now.\'94\
\
\'93What will happen?\'94 I stroked the blanket with my hand.\
\
\'93I do not know but I do not think it can go on much longer.\'94\
\
\'93What will happen?\'94\
\
\'93They will stop fighting.\'94\
\
\'93Who?\'94\
\
\'93Both sides.\'94\
\
\'93I hope so,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You don\'92t believe it?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe both sides will stop fighting at once.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose not. It is too much to expect. But when I see the changes in\
men I do not think it can go on.\'94\
\
\'93Who won the fighting this summer?\'94\
\
\'93No one.\'94\
\
\'93The Austrians won,\'94 I said. \'93They kept them from taking San Gabriele.\
They\'92ve won. They won\'92t stop fighting.\'94\
\
\'93If they feel as we feel they may stop. They have gone through the same\
thing.\'94\
\
\'93No one ever stopped when they were winning.\'94\
\
\'93You discourage me.\'94\
\
\'93I can only say what I think.\'94\
\
\'93Then you think it will go on and on? Nothing will ever happen?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I only think the Austrians will not stop when they have\
won a victory. It is in defeat that we become Christian.\'94\
\
\'93The Austrians are Christians\'97except for the Bosnians.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t mean technically Christian. I mean like Our Lord.\'94\
\
He said nothing.\
\
\'93We are all gentler now because we are beaten. How would Our Lord have\
been if Peter had rescued him in the Garden?\'94\
\
\'93He would have been just the same.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You discourage me,\'94 he said. \'93I believe and I pray that something will\
happen. I have felt it very close.\'94\
\
\'93Something may happen,\'94 I said. \'93But it will happen only to us. If they\
felt the way we do, it would be all right. But they have beaten us. They\
feel another way.\'94\
\
\'93Many of the soldiers have always felt this way. It is not because they\
were beaten.\'94\
\
\'93They were beaten to start with. They were beaten when they took them\
from their farms and put them in the army. That is why the peasant has\
wisdom, because he is defeated from the start. Put him in power and see\
how wise he is.\'94\
\
He did not say anything. He was thinking.\
\
\'93Now I am depressed myself,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s why I never think about\
these things. I never think and yet when I begin to talk I say the\
things I have found out in my mind without thinking.\'94\
\
\'93I had hoped for something.\'94\
\
\'93Defeat?\'94\
\
\'93No. Something more.\'94\
\
\'93There isn\'92t anything more. Except victory. It may be worse.\'94\
\
\'93I hoped for a long time for victory.\'94\
\
\'93Me too.\'94\
\
\'93Now I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93It has to be one or the other.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe in victory any more.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t. But I don\'92t believe in defeat. Though it may be better.\'94\
\
\'93What do you believe in?\'94\
\
\'93In sleep,\'94 I said. He stood up.\
\
\'93I am very sorry to have stayed so long. But I like so to talk with\
you.\'94\
\
\'93It is very nice to talk again. I said that about sleeping, meaning\
nothing.\'94\
\
We stood up and shook hands in the dark.\
\
\'93I sleep at 307 now,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93I go out on post early to-morrow.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll see you when you come back.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll have a walk and talk together.\'94 I walked with him to the door.\
\
\'93Don\'92t go down,\'94 he said. \'93It is very nice that you are back. Though not\
so nice for you.\'94 He put his hand on my shoulder.\
\
\'93It\'92s all right for me,\'94 I said. \'93Good-night.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night. Ciaou!\'94\
\
\'93Ciaou!\'94 I said. I was deadly sleepy.\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XXVII\
\
I woke when Rinaldi came in but he did not talk and I went back to sleep\
again. In the morning I was dressed and gone before it was light.\
Rinaldi did not wake when I left.\
\
I had not seen the Bainsizza before and it was strange to go up the\
slope where the Austrians had been, beyond the place on the river where\
I had been wounded. There was a steep new road and many trucks. Beyond,\
the road flattened out and I saw woods and steep hills in the mist.\
There were woods that had been taken quickly and not smashed. Then\
beyond where the road was not protected by the hills it was screened by\
matting on the sides and over the top. The road ended in a wrecked\
village. The lines were up beyond. There was much artillery around. The\
houses were badly smashed but things were very well organized and there\
were signboards everywhere. We found Gino and he got us some coffee and\
later I went with him and met various people and saw the posts. Gino\
said the British cars were working further down the Bainsizza at Ravne.\
He had great admiration for the British. There was still a certain\
amount of shelling, he said, but not many wounded. There would be many\
sick now the rains had started. The Austrians were supposed to attack\
but he did not believe it. We were supposed to attack too, but they had\
not brought up any new troops so he thought that was off too. Food was\
scarce and he would be glad to get a full meal in Gorizia. What kind of\
supper had I had? I told him and he said that would be wonderful. He was\
especially impressed by the _dolce_. I did not describe it in detail,\
only said it was a _dolce_, and I think he believed it was something\
more elaborate than bread pudding.\
\
Did I know where he was going to go? I said I didn\'92t but that some of\
the other cars were at Caporetto. He hoped he would go up that way. It\
was a nice little place and he liked the high mountain hauling up\
beyond. He was a nice boy and every one seemed to like him. He said\
where it really had been hell was at San Gabriele and the attack beyond\
Lom that had gone bad. He said the Austrians had a great amount of\
artillery in the woods along Ternova ridge beyond and above us, and\
shelled the roads badly at night. There was a battery of naval guns that\
had gotten on his nerves. I would recognize them because of their flat\
trajectory. You heard the report and then the shriek commenced almost\
instantly. They usually fired two guns at once, one right after the\
other, and the fragments from the burst were enormous. He showed me one,\
a smoothly jagged piece of metal over a foot long. It looked like\
babbiting metal.\
\
\'93I don\'92t suppose they are so effective,\'94 Gino said. \'93But they scare me.\
They all sound as though they came directly for you. There is the boom,\
then instantly the shriek and burst. What\'92s the use of not being wounded\
if they scare you to death?\'94\
\
He said there were Croats in the lines opposite us now and some Magyars.\
Our troops were still in the attacking positions. There was no wire to\
speak of and no place to fall back to if there should be an Austrian\
attack. There were fine positions for defense along the low mountains\
that came up out of the plateau but nothing had been done about\
organizing them for defense. What did I think about the Bainsizza\
anyway?\
\
I had expected it to be flatter, more like a plateau. I had not realized\
it was so broken up.\
\
\'93Alto piano,\'94 Gino said, \'93but no piano.\'94\
\
We went back to the cellar of the house where he lived. I said I thought\
a ridge that flattened out on top and had a little depth would be easier\
and more practical to hold than a succession of small mountains. It was\
no harder to attack up a mountain than on the level, I argued. \'93That\
depends on the mountains,\'94 he said. \'93Look at San Gabriele.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said, \'93but where they had trouble was at the top where it was\
flat. They got up to the top easy enough.\'94\
\
\'93Not so easy,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said, \'93but that was a special case because it was a fortress\
rather than a mountain, anyway. The Austrians had been fortifying it for\
years.\'94 I meant tactically speaking in a war where there was some\
movement a succession of mountains were nothing to hold as a line\
because it was too easy to turn them. You should have possible mobility\
and a mountain is not very mobile. Also, people always over-shoot down\
hill. If the flank were turned, the best men would be left on the\
highest mountains. I did not believe in a war in mountains. I had\
thought about it a lot, I said. You pinched off one mountain and they\
pinched off another but when something really started every one had to\
get down off the mountains.\
\
What were you going to do if you had a mountain frontier? he asked.\
\
I had not worked that out yet, I said, and we both laughed. \'93But,\'94 I\
said, \'93in the old days the Austrians were always whipped in the\
quadrilateral around Verona. They let them come down onto the plain and\
whipped them there.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Gino. \'93But those were Frenchmen and you can work out\
military problems clearly when you are fighting in somebody else\'92s\
country.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I agreed, \'93when it is your own country you cannot use it so\
scientifically.\'94\
\
\'93The Russians did, to trap Napoleon.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, but they had plenty of country. If you tried to retreat to trap\
Napoleon in Italy you would find yourself in Brindisi.\'94\
\
\'93A terrible place,\'94 said Gino. \'93Have you ever been there?\'94\
\
\'93Not to stay.\'94\
\
\'93I am a patriot,\'94 Gino said. \'93But I cannot love Brindisi or Taranto.\'94\
\
\'93Do you love the Bainsizza?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93The soil is sacred,\'94 he said. \'93But I wish it grew more potatoes. You\
know when we came here we found fields of potatoes the Austrians had\
planted.\'94\
\
\'93Has the food really been short?\'94\
\
\'93I myself have never had enough to eat but I am a big eater and I have\
not starved. The mess is average. The regiments in the line get pretty\
good food but those in support don\'92t get so much. Something is wrong\
somewhere. There should be plenty of food.\'94\
\
\'93The dogfish are selling it somewhere else.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, they give the battalions in the front line as much as they can but\
the ones in back are very short. They have eaten all the Austrians\'92\
potatoes and chestnuts from the woods. They ought to feed them better.\
We are big eaters. I am sure there is plenty of food. It is very bad for\
the soldiers to be short of food. Have you ever noticed the difference\
it makes in the way you think?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93It can\'92t win a war but it can lose one.\'94\
\
\'93We won\'92t talk about losing. There is enough talk about losing. What has\
been done this summer cannot have been done in vain.\'94\
\
I did not say anything. I was always embarrassed by the words sacred,\
glorious, and sacrifice and the expression in vain. We had heard them,\
sometimes standing in the rain almost out of earshot, so that only the\
shouted words came through, and had read them, on proclamations that\
were slapped up by billposters over other proclamations, now for a long\
time, and I had seen nothing sacred, and the things that were glorious\
had no glory and the sacrifices were like the stockyards at Chicago if\
nothing was done with the meat except to bury it. There were many words\
that you could not stand to hear and finally only the names of places\
had dignity. Certain numbers were the same way and certain dates and\
these with the names of the places were all you could say and have them\
mean anything. Abstract words such as glory, honor, courage, or hallow\
were obscene beside the concrete names of villages, the numbers of\
roads, the names of rivers, the numbers of regiments and the dates. Gino\
was a patriot, so he said things that separated us sometimes, but he was\
also a fine boy and I understood his being a patriot. He was born one.\
He left with Peduzzi in the car to go back to Gorizia.\
\
It stormed all that day. The wind drove down the rain and everywhere\
there was standing water and mud. The plaster of the broken houses was\
gray and wet. Late in the afternoon the rain stopped and from out number\
two post I saw the bare wet autumn country with clouds over the tops of\
the hills and the straw screening over the roads wet and dripping. The\
sun came out once before it went down and shone on the bare woods beyond\
the ridge. There were many Austrian guns in the woods on that ridge but\
only a few fired. I watched the sudden round puffs of shrapnel smoke in\
the sky above a broken farmhouse near where the line was; soft puffs\
with a yellow white flash in the centre. You saw the flash, then heard\
the crack, then saw the smoke ball distort and thin in the wind. There\
were many iron shrapnel balls in the rubble of the houses and on the\
road beside the broken house where the post was, but they did not shell\
near the post that afternoon. We loaded two cars and drove down the road\
that was screened with wet mats and the last of the sun came through in\
the breaks between the strips of mattings. Before we were out on the\
clear road behind the hill the sun was down. We went on down the clear\
road and as it turned a corner into the open and went into the square\
arched tunnel of matting the rain started again.\
\
The wind rose in the night and at three o\'92clock in the morning with the\
rain coming in sheets there was a bombardment and the Croatians came\
over across the mountain meadows and through patches of woods and into\
the front line. They fought in the dark in the rain and a counter-attack\
of scared men from the second line drove them back. There was much\
shelling and many rockets in the rain and machine-gun and rifle fire all\
along the line. They did not come again and it was quieter and between\
the gusts of wind and rain we could hear the sound of a great\
bombardment far to the north.\
\
The wounded were coming into the post, some were carried on stretchers,\
some walking and some were brought on the backs of men that came across\
the field. They were wet to the skin and all were scared. We filled two\
cars with stretcher cases as they came up from the cellar of the post\
and as I shut the door of the second car and fastened it I felt the rain\
on my face turn to snow. The flakes were coming heavy and fast in the\
rain.\
\
When daylight came the storm was still blowing but the snow had stopped.\
It had melted as it fell on the wet ground and now it was raining again.\
There was another attack just after daylight but it was unsuccessful. We\
expected an attack all day but it did not come until the sun was going\
down. The bombardment started to the south below the long wooded ridge\
where the Austrian guns were concentrated. We expected a bombardment but\
it did not come. It was getting dark. Guns were firing from the field\
behind the village and the shells, going away, had a comfortable sound.\
\
We heard that the attack to the south had been unsuccessful. They did\
not attack that night but we heard that they had broken through to the\
north. In the night word came that we were to prepare to retreat. The\
captain at the post told me this. He had it from the Brigade. A little\
while later he came from the telephone and said it was a lie. The\
Brigade had received orders that the line of the Bainsizza should be\
held no matter what happened. I asked about the break through and he\
said that he had heard at the Brigade that the Austrians had broken\
through the twenty-seventh army corps up toward Caporetto. There had\
been a great battle in the north all day.\
\
\'93If those bastards let them through we are cooked,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93It\'92s Germans that are attacking,\'94 one of the medical officers said. The\
word Germans was something to be frightened of. We did not want to have\
anything to do with the Germans.\
\
\'93There are fifteen divisions of Germans,\'94 the medical officer said.\
\'93They have broken through and we will be cut off.\'94\
\
\'93At the Brigade, they say this line is to be held. They say they have\
not broken through badly and that we will hold a line across the\
mountains from Monte Maggiore.\'94\
\
\'93Where do they hear this?\'94\
\
\'93From the Division.\'94\
\
\'93The word that we were to retreat came from the Division.\'94\
\
\'93We work under the Army Corps,\'94 I said. \'93But here I work under you.\
Naturally when you tell me to go I will go. But get the orders\
straight.\'94\
\
\'93The orders are that we stay here. You clear the wounded from here to\
the clearing station.\'94\
\
\'93Sometimes we clear from the clearing station to the field hospitals\
too,\'94 I said. \'93Tell me, I have never seen a retreat\'97if there is a\
retreat how are all the wounded evacuated?\'94\
\
\'93They are not. They take as many as they can and leave the rest.\'94\
\
\'93What will I take in the cars?\'94\
\
\'93Hospital equipment.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said.\
\
The next night the retreat started. We heard that Germans and Austrians\
had broken through in the north and were coming down the mountain\
valleys toward Cividale and Udine. The retreat was orderly, wet and\
sullen. In the night, going slowly along the crowded roads we passed\
troops marching under the rain, guns, horses pulling wagons, mules,\
motor trucks, all moving away from the front. There was no more disorder\
than in an advance.\
\
That night we helped empty the field hospitals that had been set up in\
the least ruined villages of the plateau, taking the wounded down to\
Plava on the river-bed: and the next day hauled all day in the rain to\
evacuate the hospitals and clearing station at Plava. It rained steadily\
and the army of the Bainsizza moved down off the plateau in the October\
rain and across the river where the great victories had commenced in the\
spring of that year. We came into Gorizia in the middle of the next day.\
The rain had stopped and the town was nearly empty. As we came up the\
street they were loading the girls from the soldiers\'92 whorehouse into a\
truck. There were seven girls and they had on their hats and coats and\
carried small suitcases. Two of them were crying. Of the others one\
smiled at us and put out her tongue and fluttered it up and down. She\
had thick full lips and black eyes.\
\
I stopped the car and went over and spoke to the matron. The girls from\
the officers\'92 house had left early that morning, she said. Where were\
they going? To Conegliano, she said. The truck started. The girl with\
thick lips put out her tongue again at us. The matron waved. The two\
girls kept on crying. The others looked interestedly out at the town. I\
got back in the car.\
\
\'93We ought to go with them,\'94 Bonello said. \'93That would be a good trip.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll have a good trip,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93We\'92ll have a hell of a trip.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s what I mean,\'94 I said. We came up the drive to the villa.\
\
\'93I\'92d like to be there when some of those tough babies climb in and try\
and hop them.\'94\
\
\'93You think they will?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. Everybody in the Second Army knows that matron.\'94\
\
We were outside the villa.\
\
\'93They call her the Mother Superior,\'94 Bonello said. \'93The girls are new\
but everybody knows her. They must have brought them up just before the\
retreat.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92ll have a time.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll say they\'92ll have a time. I\'92d like to have a crack at them for\
nothing. They charge too much at that house anyway. The government gyps\
us.\'94\
\
\'93Take the car out and have the mechanics go over it,\'94 I said. \'93Change\
the oil and check the differential. Fill it up and then get some sleep.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, Signor Tenente.\'94\
\
The villa was empty. Rinaldi was gone with the hospital. The major was\
gone taking hospital personnel in the staff car. There was a note on the\
window for me to fill the cars with the material piled in the hall and\
to proceed to Pordenone. The mechanics were gone already. I went out\
back to the garage. The other two cars came in while I was there and\
their drivers got down. It was starting to rain again.\
\
\'93I\'92m so \'97\'97 sleepy I went to sleep three times coming here from Plava,\'94\
Piani said. \'93What are we going to do, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll change the oil, grease them, fill them up, then take them around\
in front and load up the junk they\'92ve left.\'94\
\
\'93Then do we start?\'94\
\
\'93No, we\'92ll sleep for three hours.\'94\
\
\'93Christ I\'92m glad to sleep,\'94 Bonello said. \'93I couldn\'92t keep awake\
driving.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s your car, Aymo?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93It\'92s all right.\'94\
\
\'93Get me a monkey suit and I\'92ll help you with the oil.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you do that, Tenente,\'94 Aymo said. \'93It\'92s nothing to do. You go and\
pack your things.\'94\
\
\'93My things are all packed,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll go and carry out the stuff\
that they left for us. Bring the cars around as soon as they\'92re ready.\'94\
\
They brought the cars around to the front of the villa and we loaded\
them with the hospital equipment which was piled in the hallway. When it\
was all in, the three cars stood in line down the driveway under the\
trees in the rain. We went inside.\
\
\'93Make a fire in the kitchen and dry your things,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t care about dry clothes,\'94 Piani said. \'93I want to sleep.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to sleep on the major\'92s bed,\'94 Bonello said. \'93I\'92m going to\
sleep where the old man corks off.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t care where I sleep,\'94 Piani said.\
\
\'93There are two beds in here.\'94 I opened the door.\
\
\'93I never knew what was in that room,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93That was old fish-face\'92s room,\'94 Piani said.\
\
\'93You two sleep in there,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll wake you.\'94\
\
\'93The Austrians will wake us if you sleep too long, Tenente,\'94 Bonello\
said.\
\
\'93I won\'92t oversleep,\'94 I said. \'93Where\'92s Aymo?\'94\
\
\'93He went out in the kitchen.\'94\
\
\'93Get to sleep,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll sleep,\'94 Piani said. \'93I\'92ve been asleep sitting up all day. The\
whole top of my head kept coming down over my eyes.\'94\
\
\'93Take your boots off,\'94 Bonello said. \'93That\'92s old fish-face\'92s bed.\'94\
\
\'93Fish-face is nothing to me.\'94 Piani lay on the bed, his muddy boots\
straight out, his head on his arm. I went out to the kitchen. Aymo had a\
fire in the stove and a kettle of water on.\
\
\'93I thought I\'92d start some _pasta asciutta_,\'94 he said. \'93We\'92ll be hungry\
when we wake up.\'94\
\
\'93Aren\'92t you sleepy, Bartolomeo?\'94\
\
\'93Not so sleepy. When the water boils I\'92ll leave it. The fire will go\
down.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d better get some sleep,\'94 I said. \'93We can eat cheese and monkey\
meat.\'94\
\
\'93This is better,\'94 he said. \'93Something hot will be good for those two\
anarchists. You go to sleep, Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s a bed in the major\'92s room.\'94\
\
\'93You sleep there.\'94\
\
\'93No, I\'92m going up to my old room. Do you want a drink, Bartolomeo?\'94\
\
\'93When we go, Tenente. Now it wouldn\'92t do me any good.\'94\
\
\'93If you wake in three hours and I haven\'92t called you, wake me, will\
you?\'94\
\
\'93I haven\'92t any watch, Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s a clock on the wall in the major\'92s room.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
I went out then through the dining-room and the hall and up the marble\
stairs to the room where I had lived with Rinaldi. It was raining\
outside. I went to the window and looked out. It was getting dark and I\
saw the three cars standing in line under the trees. The trees were\
dripping in the rain. It was cold and the drops hung to the branches. I\
went back to Rinaldi\'92s bed and lay down and let sleep take me.\
\
We ate in the kitchen before we started. Aymo had a basin of spaghetti\
with onions and tinned meat chopped up in it. We sat around the table\
and drank two bottles of the wine that had been left in the cellar of\
the villa. It was dark outside and still raining. Piani sat at the table\
very sleepy.\
\
\'93I like a retreat better than an advance,\'94 Bonello said. \'93On a retreat\
we drink barbera.\'94\
\
\'93We drink it now. To-morrow maybe we drink rain-water,\'94 Aymo said.\
\
\'93To-morrow we\'92ll be in Udine. We\'92ll drink champagne. That\'92s where the\
slackers live. Wake up, Piani! We\'92ll drink champagne to-morrow in\
Udine!\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m awake,\'94 Piani said. He filled his plate with the spaghetti and\
meat. \'93Couldn\'92t you find tomato sauce, Barto?\'94\
\
\'93There wasn\'92t any,\'94 Aymo said.\
\
\'93We\'92ll drink champagne in Udine,\'94 Bonello said. He filled his glass with\
the clear red barbera.\
\
\'93We may drink \'97\'97 before Udine,\'94 Piani said.\
\
\'93Have you eaten enough, Tenente?\'94 Aymo asked.\
\
\'93I\'92ve got plenty. Give me the bottle, Bartolomeo.\'94\
\
\'93I have a bottle apiece to take in the cars,\'94 Aymo said.\
\
\'93Did you sleep at all?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t need much sleep. I slept a little.\'94\
\
\'93To-morrow we\'92ll sleep in the king\'92s bed,\'94 Bonello said. He was feeling\
very good.\
\
\'93To-morrow maybe we\'92ll sleep in \'97\'97,\'94 Piani said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll sleep with the queen,\'94 Bonello said. He looked to see how I took\
the joke.\
\
\'93You\'92ll sleep with \'97\'97,\'94 Piani said sleepily.\
\
\'93That\'92s treason, Tenente,\'94 Bonello said. \'93Isn\'92t that treason?\'94\
\
\'93Shut up,\'94 I said. \'93You get too funny with a little wine.\'94 Outside it\
was raining hard. I looked at my watch. It was half-past nine.\
\
\'93It\'92s time to roll,\'94 I said and stood up.\
\
\'93Who are you going to ride with, Tenente?\'94 Bonello asked.\
\
\'93With Aymo. Then you come. Then Piani. We\'92ll start out on the road for\
Cormons.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m afraid I\'92ll go to sleep,\'94 Piani said.\
\
\'93All right. I\'92ll ride with you. Then Bonello. Then Aymo.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the best way,\'94 Piani said. \'93Because I\'92m so sleepy.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll drive and you sleep awhile.\'94\
\
\'93No. I can drive just so long as I know somebody will wake me up if I go\
to sleep.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll wake you up. Put out the lights, Barto.\'94\
\
\'93You might as well leave them,\'94 Bonello said. \'93We\'92ve got no more use for\
this place.\'94\
\
\'93I have a small locker trunk in my room,\'94 I said. \'93Will you help take it\
down, Piani?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll take it,\'94 Piani said. \'93Come on, Aldo.\'94 He went off into the hall\
with Bonello. I heard them going upstairs.\
\
\'93This was a fine place,\'94 Bartolomeo Aymo said. He put two bottles of\
wine and half a cheese into his haversack. \'93There won\'92t be a place like\
this again. Where will they retreat to, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93Beyond the Tagliamento, they say. The hospital and the sector are to be\
at Pordenone.\'94\
\
\'93This is a better town than Pordenone.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know Pordenone,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ve just been through there.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not much of a place,\'94 Aymo said.\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XXVIII\
\
As we moved out through the town it was empty in the rain and the dark\
except for columns of troops and guns that were going through the main\
street. There were many trucks too and some carts going through on other\
streets and converging on the main road. When we were out past the\
tanneries onto the main road the troops, the motor trucks, the\
horse-drawn carts and the guns were in one wide slow-moving column. We\
moved slowly but steadily in the rain, the radiator cap of our car\
almost against the tailboard of a truck that was loaded high, the load\
covered with wet canvas. Then the truck stopped. The whole column was\
stopped. It started again and we went a little farther, then stopped. I\
got out and walked ahead, going between the trucks and carts and under\
the wet necks of the horses. The block was farther ahead. I left the\
road, crossed the ditch on a footboard and walked along the field beyond\
the ditch. I could see the stalled column between the trees in the rain\
as I went forward across from it in the field. I went about a mile. The\
column did not move, although, on the other side beyond the stalled\
vehicles I could see the troops moving. I went back to the cars. This\
block might extend as far as Udine. Piani was asleep over the wheel. I\
climbed up beside him and went to sleep too. Several hours later I heard\
the truck ahead of us grinding into gear. I woke Piani and we started,\
moving a few yards, then stopping, then going on again. It was still\
raining.\
\
The column stalled again in the night and did not start. I got down and\
went back to see Aymo and Bonello. Bonello had two sergeants of\
engineers on the seat of his car with him. They stiffened when I came\
up.\
\
\'93They were left to do something to a bridge,\'94 Bonello said. \'93They can\'92t\
find their unit so I gave them a ride.\'94\
\
\'93With the Sir Lieutenant\'92s permission.\'94\
\
\'93With permission,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93The lieutenant is an American,\'94 Bonello said. \'93He\'92ll give anybody a\
ride.\'94\
\
One of the sergeants smiled. The other asked Bonello if I was an Italian\
from North or South America.\
\
\'93He\'92s not an Italian. He\'92s North American English.\'94\
\
The sergeants were polite but did not believe it. I left them and went\
back to Aymo. He had two girls on the seat with him and was sitting back\
in the corner and smoking.\
\
\'93Barto, Barto,\'94 I said. He laughed.\
\
\'93Talk to them, Tenente,\'94 he said. \'93I can\'92t understand them. Hey!\'94 he put\
his hand on the girl\'92s thigh and squeezed it in a friendly way. The girl\
drew her shawl tight around her and pushed his hand away. \'93Hey!\'94 he\
said. \'93Tell the Tenente your name and what you\'92re doing here.\'94\
\
The girl looked at me fiercely. The other girl kept her eyes down. The\
girl who looked at me said something in a dialect I could not understand\
a word of. She was plump and dark and looked about sixteen.\
\
\'93Sorella?\'94 I asked and pointed at the other girl.\
\
She nodded her head and smiled.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said and patted her knee. I felt her stiffen away when I\
touched her. The sister never looked up. She looked perhaps a year\
younger. Aymo put his hand on the elder girl\'92s thigh and she pushed it\
away. He laughed at her.\
\
\'93Good man,\'94 he pointed at himself. \'93Good man,\'94 he pointed at me. \'93Don\'92t\
you worry.\'94 The girl looked at him fiercely. The pair of them were like\
two wild birds.\
\
\'93What does she ride with me for if she doesn\'92t like me?\'94 Aymo asked.\
\'93They got right up in the car the minute I motioned to them.\'94 He turned\
to the girl. \'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 he said. \'93No danger of \'97\'97,\'94 using the\
vulgar word. \'93No place for \'97\'97.\'94 I could see she understood the word\
and that was all. Her eyes looked at him very scared. She pulled the\
shawl tight. \'93Car all full,\'94 Aymo said. \'93No danger of \'97\'97. No place for\
\'97\'97.\'94 Every time he said the word the girl stiffened a little. Then\
sitting stiffly and looking at him she began to cry. I saw her lips\
working and then tears came down her plump cheeks. Her sister, not\
looking up, took her hand and they sat there together. The older one,\
who had been so fierce, began to sob.\
\
\'93I guess I scared her,\'94 Aymo said. \'93I didn\'92t mean to scare her.\'94\
\
Bartolomeo brought out his knapsack and cut off two pieces of cheese.\
\'93Here,\'94 he said. \'93Stop crying.\'94\
\
The older girl shook her head and still cried, but the younger girl took\
the cheese and commenced to eat. After a while the younger girl gave her\
sister the second piece of cheese and they both ate. The older sister\
still sobbed a little.\
\
\'93She\'92ll be all right after a while,\'94 Aymo said.\
\
An idea came to him. \'93Virgin?\'94 he asked the girl next to him. She nodded\
her head vigorously. \'93Virgin too?\'94 he pointed to the sister. Both the\
girls nodded their heads and the elder said something in dialect.\
\
\'93That\'92s all right,\'94 Bartolomeo said. \'93That\'92s all right.\'94\
\
Both the girls seemed cheered.\
\
I left them sitting together with Aymo sitting back in the corner and\
went back to Piani\'92s car. The column of vehicles did not move but the\
troops kept passing alongside. It was still raining hard and I thought\
some of the stops in the movement of the column might be from cars with\
wet wiring. More likely they were from horses or men going to sleep.\
Still, traffic could tie up in cities when every one was awake. It was\
the combination of horse and motor vehicles. They did not help each\
other any. The peasants\'92 carts did not help much either. Those were a\
couple of fine girls with Barto. A retreat was no place for two virgins.\
Real virgins. Probably very religious. If there were no war we would\
probably all be in bed. In bed I lay me down my head. Bed and board.\
Stiff as a board in bed. Catherine was in bed now between two sheets,\
over her and under her. Which side did she sleep on? Maybe she wasn\'92t\
asleep. Maybe she was lying thinking about me. Blow, blow, ye western\
wind. Well, it blew and it wasn\'92t the small rain but the big rain down\
that rained. It rained all night. You knew it rained down that rained.\
Look at it. Christ, that my love were in my arms and I in my bed again.\
That my love Catherine. That my sweet love Catherine down might rain.\
Blow her again to me. Well, we were in it. Every one was caught in it\
and the small rain would not quiet it. \'93Good-night, Catherine,\'94 I said\
out loud. \'93I hope you sleep well. If it\'92s too uncomfortable, darling,\
lie on the other side,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll get you some cold water. In a\
little while it will be morning and then it won\'92t be so bad. I\'92m sorry\
he makes you so uncomfortable. Try and go to sleep, sweet.\'94\
\
I was asleep all the time, she said. You\'92ve been talking in your sleep.\
Are you all right?\
\
Are you really there?\
\
Of course I\'92m here. I wouldn\'92t go way. This doesn\'92t make any difference\
between us.\
\
You\'92re so lovely and sweet. You wouldn\'92t go away in the night, would\
you?\
\
Of course I wouldn\'92t go away. I\'92m always here. I come whenever you want\
me.\
\
\'93\'97\'97,\'94 Piani said. \'93They\'92ve started again.\'94\
\
\'93I was dopey,\'94 I said. I looked at my watch. It was three o\'92clock in the\
morning. I reached back behind the seat for a bottle of the barbera.\
\
\'93You talked out loud,\'94 Piani said.\
\
\'93I was having a dream in English,\'94 I said.\
\
The rain was slacking and we were moving along. Before daylight we were\
stalled again and when it was light we were at a little rise in the\
ground and I saw the road of the retreat stretched out far ahead,\
everything stationary except for the infantry filtering through. We\
started to move again but seeing the rate of progress in the daylight, I\
knew we were going to have to get off that main road some way and go\
across country if we ever hoped to reach Udine.\
\
In the night many peasants had joined the column from the roads of the\
country and in the column there were carts loaded with household goods;\
there were mirrors projecting up between mattresses, and chickens and\
ducks tied to carts. There was a sewing-machine on the cart ahead of us\
in the rain. They had saved the most valuable things. On some carts the\
women sat huddled from the rain and others walked beside the carts\
keeping as close to them as they could. There were dogs now in the\
column, keeping under the wagons as they moved along. The road was\
muddy, the ditches at the side were high with water and beyond the trees\
that lined the road the fields looked too wet and too soggy to try to\
cross. I got down from the car and worked up the road a way, looking for\
a place where I could see ahead to find a side-road we could take across\
country. I knew there were many side-roads but did not want one that\
would lead to nothing. I could not remember them because we had always\
passed them bowling along in the car on the main road and they all\
looked much alike. Now I knew we must find one if we hoped to get\
through. No one knew where the Austrians were nor how things were going\
but I was certain that if the rain should stop and planes come over and\
get to work on that column that it would be all over. All that was\
needed was for a few men to leave their trucks or a few horses be killed\
to tie up completely the movement on the road.\
\
The rain was not falling so heavily now and I thought it might clear. I\
went ahead along the edge of the road and when there was a small road\
that led off to the north between two fields with a hedge of trees on\
both sides, I thought that we had better take it and hurried back to the\
cars. I told Piani to turn off and went back to tell Bonello and Aymo.\
\
\'93If it leads nowhere we can turn around and cut back in,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93What about these?\'94 Bonello asked. His two sergeants were beside him on\
the seat. They were unshaven but still military looking in the early\
morning.\
\
\'93They\'92ll be good to push,\'94 I said. I went back to Aymo and told him we\
were going to try it across country.\
\
\'93What about my virgin family?\'94 Aymo asked. The two girls were asleep.\
\
\'93They won\'92t be very useful,\'94 I said. \'93You ought to have some one that\
could push.\'94\
\
\'93They could go back in the car,\'94 Aymo said. \'93There\'92s room in the car.\'94\
\
\'93All right if you want them,\'94 I said. \'93Pick up somebody with a wide back\
to push.\'94\
\
\'93Bersaglieri,\'94 Aymo smiled. \'93They have the widest backs. They measure\
them. How do you feel, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93Fine. How are you?\'94\
\
\'93Fine. But very hungry.\'94\
\
\'93There ought to be something up that road and we will stop and eat.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s your leg, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93Fine,\'94 I said. Standing on the step and looking up ahead I could see\
Piani\'92s car pulling out onto the little side-road and starting up it,\
his car showing through the hedge of bare branches. Bonello turned off\
and followed him and then Piani worked his way out and we followed the\
two ambulances ahead along the narrow road between hedges. It led to a\
farmhouse. We found Piani and Bonello stopped in the farmyard. The house\
was low and long with a trellis with a grape-vine over the door. There\
was a well in the yard and Piani was getting up water to fill his\
radiator. So much going in low gear had boiled it out. The farmhouse was\
deserted. I looked back down the road, the farmhouse was on a slight\
elevation above the plain, and we could see over the country, and saw\
the road, the hedges, the fields and the line of trees along the main\
road where the retreat was passing. The two sergeants were looking\
through the house. The girls were awake and looking at the courtyard,\
the well and the two big ambulances in front of the farmhouse, with\
three drivers at the well. One of the sergeants came out with a clock in\
his hand.\
\
\'93Put it back,\'94 I said. He looked at me, went in the house and came back\
without the clock.\
\
\'93Where\'92s your partner?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93He\'92s gone to the latrine.\'94 He got up on the seat of the ambulance. He\
was afraid we would leave him.\
\
\'93What about breakfast, Tenente?\'94 Bonello asked. \'93We could eat something.\
It wouldn\'92t take very long.\'94\
\
\'93Do you think this road going down on the other side will lead to\
anything?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93All right. Let\'92s eat.\'94 Piani and Bonello went in the house.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 Aymo said to the girls. He held his hand to help them down.\
The older sister shook her head. They were not going into any deserted\
house. They looked after us.\
\
\'93They are difficult,\'94 Aymo said. We went into the farmhouse together. It\
was large and dark, an abandoned feeling. Bonello and Piani were in the\
kitchen.\
\
\'93There\'92s not much to eat,\'94 Piani said. \'93They\'92ve cleaned it out.\'94\
\
Bonello sliced a big white cheese on the heavy kitchen table.\
\
\'93Where was the cheese?\'94\
\
\'93In the cellar. Piani found wine too and apples.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a good breakfast.\'94\
\
Piani was taking the wooden cork out of a big wicker-covered wine jug.\
He tipped it and poured a copper pan full.\
\
\'93It smells all right,\'94 he said. \'93Find some beakers, Barto.\'94\
\
The two sergeants came in.\
\
\'93Have some cheese, sergeants,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93We should go,\'94 one of the sergeants said, eating his cheese and\
drinking a cup of wine.\
\
\'93We\'92ll go. Don\'92t worry,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93An army travels on its stomach,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93What?\'94 asked the sergeant.\
\
\'93It\'92s better to eat.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. But time is precious.\'94\
\
\'93I believe the bastards have eaten already,\'94 Piani said. The sergeants\
looked at him. They hated the lot of us.\
\
\'93You know the road?\'94 one of them asked me.\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. They looked at each other.\
\
\'93We would do best to start,\'94 the first one said.\
\
\'93We are starting,\'94 I said. I drank another cup of the red wine. It\
tasted very good after the cheese and apple.\
\
\'93Bring the cheese,\'94 I said and went out. Bonello came out carrying the\
great jug of wine.\
\
\'93That\'92s too big,\'94 I said. He looked at it regretfully.\
\
\'93I guess it is,\'94 he said. \'93Give me the canteens to fill.\'94 He filled the\
canteens and some of the wine ran out on the stone paving of the\
courtyard. Then he picked up the wine jug and put it just inside the\
door.\
\
\'93The Austrians can find it without breaking the door down,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93We\'92ll roll,\'94 I said. \'93Piani and I will go ahead.\'94 The two engineers\
were already on the seat beside Bonello. The girls were eating cheese\
and apples. Aymo was smoking. We started off down the narrow road. I\
looked back at the two cars coming and the farmhouse. It was a fine,\
low, solid stone house and the ironwork of the well was very good. Ahead\
of us the road was narrow and muddy and there was a high hedge on either\
side. Behind, the cars were following closely.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XXIX\
\
At noon we were stuck in a muddy road about, as nearly as we could\
figure, ten kilometres from Udine. The rain had stopped during the\
forenoon and three times we had heard planes coming, seen them pass\
overhead, watched them go far to the left and heard them bombing on the\
main highroad. We had worked through a network of secondary roads and\
had taken many roads that were blind, but had always, by backing up and\
finding another road, gotten closer to Udine. Now, Aymo\'92s car, in\
backing so that we might get out of a blind road, had gotten into the\
soft earth at the side and the wheels, spinning, had dug deeper and\
deeper until the car rested on its differential. The thing to do now was\
to dig out in front of the wheels, put in brush so that the chains could\
grip, and then push until the car was on the road. We were all down on\
the road around the car. The two sergeants looked at the car and\
examined the wheels. Then they started off down the road without a word.\
I went after them.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 I said. \'93Cut some brush.\'94\
\
\'93We have to go,\'94 one said.\
\
\'93Get busy,\'94 I said, \'93and cut brush.\'94\
\
\'93We have to go,\'94 one said. The other said nothing. They were in a hurry\
to start. They would not look at me.\
\
\'93I order you to come back to the car and cut brush,\'94 I said. The one\
sergeant turned. \'93We have to go on. In a little while you will be cut\
off. You can\'92t order us. You\'92re not our officer.\'94\
\
\'93I order you to cut brush,\'94 I said. They turned and started down the\
road.\
\
\'93Halt,\'94 I said. They kept on down the muddy road, the hedge on either\
side. \'93I order you to halt,\'94 I called. They went a little faster. I\
opened up my holster, took the pistol, aimed at the one who had talked\
the most, and fired. I missed and they both started to run. I shot three\
times and dropped one. The other went through the hedge and was out of\
sight. I fired at him through the hedge as he ran across the field. The\
pistol clicked empty and I put in another clip. I saw it was too far to\
shoot at the second sergeant. He was far across the field, running, his\
head held low. I commenced to reload the empty clip. Bonello came up.\
\
\'93Let me go finish him,\'94 he said. I handed him the pistol and he walked\
down to where the sergeant of engineers lay face down across the road.\
Bonello leaned over, put the pistol against the man\'92s head and pulled\
the trigger. The pistol did not fire.\
\
\'93You have to cock it,\'94 I said. He cocked it and fired twice. He took\
hold of the sergeant\'92s legs and pulled him to the side of the road so he\
lay beside the hedge. He came back and handed me the pistol.\
\
\'93The son of a bitch,\'94 he said. He looked toward the sergeant. \'93You see\
me shoot him, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve got to get the brush quickly,\'94 I said. \'93Did I hit the other one\
at all?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 Aymo said. \'93He was too far away to hit with a\
pistol.\'94\
\
\'93The dirty scum,\'94 Piani said. We were all cutting twigs and branches.\
Everything had been taken out of the car. Bonello was digging out in\
front of the wheels. When we were ready Aymo started the car and put it\
into gear. The wheels spun round throwing brush and mud. Bonello and I\
pushed until we could feel our joints crack. The car would not move.\
\
\'93Rock her back and forth, Barto,\'94 I said.\
\
He drove the engine in reverse, then forward. The wheels only dug in\
deeper. Then the car was resting on the differential again, and the\
wheels spun freely in the holes they had dug. I straightened up.\
\
\'93We\'92ll try her with a rope,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t think it\'92s any use, Tenente. You can\'92t get a straight pull.\'94\
\
\'93We have to try it,\'94 I said. \'93She won\'92t come out any other way.\'94\
\
Piani\'92s and Bonello\'92s cars could only move straight ahead down the\
narrow road. We roped both cars together and pulled. The wheels only\
pulled sideways against the ruts.\
\
\'93It\'92s no good,\'94 I shouted. \'93Stop it.\'94\
\
Piani and Bonello got down from their cars and came back. Aymo got down.\
The girls were up the road about forty yards sitting on a stone wall.\
\
\'93What do you say, Tenente?\'94 Bonello asked.\
\
\'93We\'92ll dig out and try once more with the brush,\'94 I said. I looked down\
the road. It was my fault. I had led them up here. The sun was almost\
out from behind the clouds and the body of the sergeant lay beside the\
hedge.\
\
\'93We\'92ll put his coat and cape under,\'94 I said. Bonello went to get them. I\
cut brush and Aymo and Piani dug out in front and between the wheels. I\
cut the cape, then ripped it in two, and laid it under the wheel in the\
mud, then piled brush for the wheels to catch. We were ready to start\
and Aymo got up on the seat and started the car. The wheels spun and we\
pushed and pushed. But it wasn\'92t any use.\
\
\'93It\'92s \'97\'97ed,\'94 I said. \'93Is there anything you want in the car, Barto?\'94\
\
Aymo climbed up with Bonello, carrying the cheese and two bottles of\
wine and his cape. Bonello, sitting behind the wheel, was looking\
through the pockets of the sergeant\'92s coat.\
\
\'93Better throw the coat away,\'94 I said. \'93What about Barto\'92s virgins?\'94\
\
\'93They can get in the back,\'94 Piani said. \'93I don\'92t think we are going\
far.\'94\
\
I opened the back door of the ambulance.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 I said. \'93Get in.\'94 The two girls climbed in and sat in the\
corner. They seemed to have taken no notice of the shooting. I looked\
back up the road. The sergeant lay in his dirty long-sleeved underwear.\
I got up with Piani and we started. We were going to try to cross the\
field. When the road entered the field I got down and walked ahead. If\
we could get across, there was a road on the other side. We could not\
get across. It was too soft and muddy for the cars. When they were\
finally and completely stalled, the wheels dug in to the hubs, we left\
them in the field and started on foot for Udine.\
\
When we came to the road which led back toward the main highway I\
pointed down it to the two girls.\
\
\'93Go down there,\'94 I said. \'93You\'92ll meet people.\'94 They looked at me. I took\
out my pocket-book and gave them each a ten-lira note. \'93Go down there,\'94\
I said, pointing. \'93Friends! Family!\'94\
\
They did not understand but they held the money tightly and started down\
the road. They looked back as though they were afraid I might take the\
money back. I watched them go down the road, their shawls close around\
them, looking back apprehensively at us. The three drivers were\
laughing.\
\
\'93How much will you give me to go in that direction, Tenente?\'94 Bonello\
asked.\
\
\'93They\'92re better off in a bunch of people than alone if they catch them,\'94\
I said.\
\
\'93Give me two hundred lire and I\'92ll walk straight back toward Austria,\'94\
Bonello said.\
\
\'93They\'92d take it away from you,\'94 Piani said.\
\
\'93Maybe the war will be over,\'94 Aymo said. We were going up the road as\
fast as we could. The sun was trying to come through. Beside the road\
were mulberry trees. Through the trees I could see our two big\
moving-vans of cars stuck in the field. Piani looked back too.\
\
\'93They\'92ll have to build a road to get them out,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93I wish to Christ we had bicycles,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93Do they ride bicycles in America?\'94 Aymo asked.\
\
\'93They used to.\'94\
\
\'93Here it is a great thing,\'94 Aymo said. \'93A bicycle is a splendid thing.\'94\
\
\'93I wish to Christ we had bicycles,\'94 Bonello said. \'93I\'92m no walker.\'94\
\
\'93Is that firing?\'94 I asked. I thought I could hear firing a long way\
away.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Aymo said. He listened.\
\
\'93I think so,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93The first thing we will see will be the cavalry,\'94 Piani said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t think they\'92ve got any cavalry.\'94\
\
\'93I hope to Christ not,\'94 Bonello said. \'93I don\'92t want to be stuck on a\
lance by any \'97\'97 cavalry.\'94\
\
\'93You certainly shot that sergeant, Tenente,\'94 Piani said. We were walking\
fast.\
\
\'93I killed him,\'94 Bonello said. \'93I never killed anybody in this war, and\
all my life I\'92ve wanted to kill a sergeant.\'94\
\
\'93You killed him on the sit all right,\'94 Piani said. \'93He wasn\'92t flying\
very fast when you killed him.\'94\
\
\'93Never mind. That\'92s one thing I can always remember. I killed that \'97\'97\
of a sergeant.\'94\
\
\'93What will you say in confession?\'94 Aymo asked.\
\
\'93I\'92ll say, \'91Bless me, father, I killed a sergeant.\'92\'94 They all laughed.\
\
\'93He\'92s an anarchist,\'94 Piani said. \'93He doesn\'92t go to church.\'94\
\
\'93Piani\'92s an anarchist too,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93Are you really anarchists?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No, Tenente. We\'92re socialists. We come from Imola.\'94\
\
\'93Haven\'92t you ever been there?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93By Christ it\'92s a fine place, Tenente. You come there after the war and\
we\'92ll show you something.\'94\
\
\'93Are you all socialists?\'94\
\
\'93Everybody.\'94\
\
\'93Is it a fine town?\'94\
\
\'93Wonderful. You never saw a town like that.\'94\
\
\'93How did you get to be socialists?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re all socialists. Everybody is a socialist. We\'92ve always been\
socialists.\'94\
\
\'93You come, Tenente. We\'92ll make you a socialist too.\'94\
\
Ahead the road turned off to the left and there was a little hill and,\
beyond a stone wall, an apple orchard. As the road went uphill they\
ceased talking. We walked along together all going fast against time.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XXX\
\
Later we were on a road that led to a river. There was a long line of\
abandoned trucks and carts on the road leading up to the bridge. No one\
was in sight. The river was high and the bridge had been blown up in the\
centre; the stone arch was fallen into the river and the brown water was\
going over it. We went on up the bank looking for a place to cross. Up\
ahead I knew there was a railway bridge and I thought we might be able\
to get across there. The path was wet and muddy. We did not see any\
troops; only abandoned trucks and stores. Along the river bank there was\
nothing and no one but the wet brush and muddy ground. We went up to the\
bank and finally we saw the railway bridge.\
\
\'93What a beautiful bridge,\'94 Aymo said. It was a long plain iron bridge\
across what was usually a dry river-bed.\
\
\'93We better hurry and get across before they blow it up,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93There\'92s nobody to blow it up,\'94 Piani said. \'93They\'92re all gone.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s probably mined,\'94 Bonello said. \'93You cross first, Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93Listen to the anarchist,\'94 Aymo said. \'93Make him go first.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll go,\'94 I said. \'93It won\'92t be mined to blow up with one man.\'94\
\
\'93You see,\'94 Piani said. \'93That is brains. Why haven\'92t you brains,\
anarchist?\'94\
\
\'93If I had brains I wouldn\'92t be here,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93That\'92s pretty good, Tenente,\'94 Aymo said.\
\
\'93That\'92s pretty good,\'94 I said. We were close to the bridge now. The sky\
had clouded over again and it was raining a little. The bridge looked\
long and solid. We climbed up the embankment.\
\
\'93Come one at a time,\'94 I said and started across the bridge. I watched\
the ties and the rails for any tripwires or signs of explosive but I saw\
nothing. Down below the gaps in the ties the river ran muddy and fast.\
Ahead across the wet countryside I could see Udine in the rain. Across\
the bridge I looked back. Just up the river was another bridge. As I\
watched, a yellow mud-colored motor car crossed it. The sides of the\
bridge were high and the body of the car, once on, was out of sight. But\
I saw the heads of the driver, the man on the seat with him, and the two\
men on the rear seat. They all wore German helmets. Then the car was\
over the bridge and out of sight behind the trees and the abandoned\
vehicles on the road. I waved to Aymo who was crossing and to the others\
to come on. I climbed down and crouched beside the railway embankment.\
Aymo came down with me.\
\
\'93Did you see the car?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No. We were watching you.\'94\
\
\'93A German staff car crossed on the upper bridge.\'94\
\
\'93A staff car?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Holy Mary.\'94\
\
The others came and we all crouched in the mud behind the embankment,\
looking across the rails at the bridge, the line of trees, the ditch and\
the road.\
\
\'93Do you think we\'92re cut off then, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. All I know is a German staff car went along that road.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t feel funny, Tenente? You haven\'92t got strange feelings in the\
head?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be funny, Bonello.\'94\
\
\'93What about a drink?\'94 Piani asked. \'93If we\'92re cut off we might as well\
have a drink.\'94 He unhooked his canteen and uncorked it.\
\
\'93Look! Look!\'94 Aymo said and pointed toward the road. Along the top of\
the stone bridge we could see German helmets moving. They were bent\
forward and moved smoothly, almost supernaturally, along. As they came\
off the bridge we saw them. They were bicycle troops. I saw the faces of\
the first two. They were ruddy and healthy-looking. Their helmets came\
low down over their foreheads and the side of their faces. Their\
carbines were clipped to the frame of the bicycles. Stick bombs hung\
handle down from their belts. Their helmets and their gray uniforms were\
wet and they rode easily, looking ahead and to both sides. There were\
two\'97then four in line, then two, then almost a dozen; then another\
dozen\'97then one alone. They did not talk but we could not have heard\
them because of the noise from the river. They were gone out of sight up\
the road.\
\
\'93Holy Mary,\'94 Aymo said.\
\
\'93They were Germans,\'94 Piani said. \'93Those weren\'92t Austrians.\'94\
\
\'93Why isn\'92t there somebody here to stop them?\'94 I said. \'93Why haven\'92t they\
blown the bridge up? Why aren\'92t there machine-guns along this\
embankment?\'94\
\
\'93You tell us, Tenente,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
I was very angry.\
\
\'93The whole bloody thing is crazy. Down below they blow up a little\
bridge. Here they leave a bridge on the main road. Where is everybody?\
Don\'92t they try and stop them at all?\'94\
\
\'93You tell us, Tenente,\'94 Bonello said. I shut up. It was none of my\
business; all I had to do was to get to Pordenone with three ambulances.\
I had failed at that. All I had to do now was get to Pordenone. I\
probably could not even get to Udine. The hell I couldn\'92t. The thing to\
do was to be calm and not get shot or captured.\
\
\'93Didn\'92t you have a canteen open?\'94 I asked Piani. He handed it to me. I\
took a long drink. \'93We might as well start,\'94 I said. \'93There\'92s no hurry\
though. Do you want to eat something?\'94\
\
\'93This is no place to stay,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93All right. We\'92ll start.\'94\
\
\'93Should we keep on this side\'97out of sight?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll be better off on top. They may come along this bridge too. We\
don\'92t want them on top of us before we see them.\'94\
\
We walked along the railroad track. On both sides of us stretched the\
wet plain. Ahead across the plain was the hill of Udine. The roofs fell\
away from the castle on the hill. We could see the campanile and the\
clock-tower. There were many mulberry trees in the fields. Ahead I saw a\
place where the rails were torn up. The ties had been dug out too and\
thrown down the embankment.\
\
\'93Down! down!\'94 Aymo said. We dropped down beside the embankment. There\
was another group of bicyclists passing along the road. I looked over\
the edge and saw them go on.\
\
\'93They saw us but they went on,\'94 Aymo said.\
\
\'93We\'92ll get killed up there, Tenente,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93They don\'92t want us,\'94 I said. \'93They\'92re after something else. We\'92re in\
more danger if they should come on us suddenly.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d rather walk here out of sight,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93All right. We\'92ll walk along the tracks.\'94\
\
\'93Do you think we can get through?\'94 Aymo asked.\
\
\'93Sure. There aren\'92t very many of them yet. We\'92ll go through in the\
dark.\'94\
\
\'93What was that staff car doing?\'94\
\
\'93Christ knows,\'94 I said. We kept on up the tracks. Bonello tired of\
walking in the mud of the embankment and came up with the rest of us.\
The railway moved south away from the highway now and we could not see\
what passed along the road. A short bridge over a canal was blown up but\
we climbed across on what was left of the span. We heard firing ahead of\
us.\
\
We came up on the railway beyond the canal. It went on straight toward\
the town across the low fields. We could see the line of the other\
railway ahead of us. To the north was the main road where we had seen\
the cyclists; to the south there was a small branch-road across the\
fields with thick trees on each side. I thought we had better cut to the\
south and work around the town that way and across country toward\
Campoformio and the main road to the Tagliamento. We could avoid the\
main line of the retreat by keeping to the secondary roads beyond Udine.\
I knew there were plenty of side-roads across the plain. I started down\
the embankment.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 I said. We would make for the side-road and work to the south\
of the town. We all started down the embankment. A shot was fired at us\
from the side-road. The bullet went into the mud of the embankment.\
\
\'93Go on back,\'94 I shouted. I started up the embankment, slipping in the\
mud. The drivers were ahead of me. I went up the embankment as fast as I\
could go. Two more shots came from the thick brush and Aymo, as he was\
crossing the tracks, lurched, tripped and fell face down. We pulled him\
down on the other side and turned him over. \'93His head ought to be\
uphill,\'94 I said. Piani moved him around. He lay in the mud on the side\
of the embankment, his feet pointing downhill, breathing blood\
irregularly. The three of us squatted over him in the rain. He was hit\
low in the back of the neck and the bullet had ranged upward and come\
out under the right eye. He died while I was stopping up the two holes.\
Piani laid his head down, wiped at his face, with a piece of the\
emergency dressing, then let it alone.\
\
\'93The \'97\'97,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93They weren\'92t Germans,\'94 I said. \'93There can\'92t be any Germans over there.\'94\
\
\'93Italians,\'94 Piani said, using the word as an epithet, \'93Italiani!\'94\
Bonello said nothing. He was sitting beside Aymo, not looking at him.\
Piani picked up Aymo\'92s cap where it had rolled down the embankment and\
put it over his face. He took out his canteen.\
\
\'93Do you want a drink?\'94 Piani handed Bonello the canteen.\
\
\'93No,\'94 Bonello said. He turned to me. \'93That might have happened to us any\
time on the railway tracks.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93It was because we started across the field.\'94\
\
Bonello shook his head. \'93Aymo\'92s dead,\'94 he said. \'93Who\'92s dead next,\
Tenente? Where do we go now?\'94\
\
\'93Those were Italians that shot,\'94 I said. \'93They weren\'92t Germans.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose if they were Germans they\'92d have killed all of us,\'94 Bonello\
said.\
\
\'93We are in more danger from Italians than Germans,\'94 I said. \'93The rear\
guard are afraid of everything. The Germans know what they\'92re after.\'94\
\
\'93You reason it out, Tenente,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93Where do we go now?\'94 Piani asked.\
\
\'93We better lie up some place till it\'92s dark. If we could get south we\'92d\
be all right.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92d have to shoot us all to prove they were right the first time,\'94\
Bonello said. \'93I\'92m not going to try them.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll find a place to lie up as near to Udine as we can get and then go\
through when it\'92s dark.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go then,\'94 Bonello said. We went down the north side of the\
embankment. I looked back. Aymo lay in the mud with the angle of the\
embankment. He was quite small and his arms were by his side, his\
puttee-wrapped legs and muddy boots together, his cap over his face. He\
looked very dead. It was raining. I had liked him as well as any one I\
ever knew. I had his papers in my pocket and would write to his family.\
Ahead across the fields was a farmhouse. There were trees around it and\
the farm buildings were built against the house. There was a balcony\
along the second floor held up by columns.\
\
\'93We better keep a little way apart,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll go ahead.\'94 I started\
toward the farmhouse. There was a path across the field.\
\
Crossing the field, I did not know but that some one would fire on us\
from the trees near the farmhouse or from the farmhouse itself. I walked\
toward it, seeing it very clearly. The balcony of the second floor\
merged into the barn and there was hay coming out between the columns.\
The courtyard was of stone blocks and all the trees were dripping with\
the rain. There was a big empty two-wheeled cart, the shafts tipped high\
up in the rain. I came to the courtyard, crossed it, and stood under the\
shelter of the balcony. The door of the house was open and I went in.\
Bonello and Piani came in after me. It was dark inside. I went back to\
the kitchen. There were ashes of a fire on the big open hearth. The pots\
hung over the ashes, but they were empty. I looked around but I could\
not find anything to eat.\
\
\'93We ought to lie up in the barn,\'94 I said. \'93Do you think you could find\
anything to eat, Piani, and bring it up there?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll look,\'94 Piani said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll look too,\'94 Bonello said.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll go up and look at the barn.\'94 I found a stone\
stairway that went up from the stable underneath. The stable smelt dry\
and pleasant in the rain. The cattle were all gone, probably driven off\
when they left. The barn was half full of hay. There were two windows in\
the roof, one was blocked with boards, the other was a narrow dormer\
window on the north side. There was a chute so that hay might be pitched\
down to the cattle. Beams crossed the opening down into the main floor\
where the hay-carts drove in when the hay was hauled in to be pitched\
up. I heard the rain on the roof and smelled the hay and, when I went\
down, the clean smell of dried dung in the stable. We could pry a board\
loose and see out of the south window down into the courtyard. The other\
window looked out on the field toward the north. We could get out of\
either window onto the roof and down, or go down the hay chute if the\
stairs were impractical. It was a big barn and we could hide in the hay\
if we heard any one. It seemed like a good place. I was sure we could\
have gotten through to the south if they had not fired on us. It was\
impossible that there were Germans there. They were coming from the\
north and down the road from Cividale. They could not have come through\
from the south. The Italians were even more dangerous. They were\
frightened and firing on anything they saw. Last night on the retreat we\
had heard that there had been many Germans in Italian uniforms mixing\
with the retreat in the north. I did not believe it. That was one of\
those things you always heard in the war. It was one of the things the\
enemy always did to you. You did not know any one who went over in\
German uniform to confuse them. Maybe they did but it sounded difficult.\
I did not believe the Germans did it. I did not believe they had to.\
There was no need to confuse our retreat. The size of the army and the\
fewness of the roads did that. Nobody gave any orders, let alone\
Germans. Still, they would shoot us for Germans. They shot Aymo. The hay\
smelled good and lying in a barn in the hay took away all the years in\
between. We had lain in hay and talked and shot sparrows with an\
air-rifle when they perched in the triangle cut high up in the wall of\
the barn. The barn was gone now and one year they had cut the hemlock\
woods and there were only stumps, dried tree-tops, branches and fireweed\
where the woods had been. You could not go back. If you did not go\
forward what happened? You never got back to Milan. And if you got back\
to Milan what happened? I listened to the firing to the north toward\
Udine. I could hear machine-gun firing. There was no shelling. That was\
something. They must have gotten some troops along the road. I looked\
down in the half-light of the hay-barn and saw Piani standing on the\
hauling floor. He had a long sausage, a jar of something and two bottles\
of wine under his arm.\
\
\'93Come up,\'94 I said. \'93There is the ladder.\'94 Then I realized that I should\
help him with the things and went down. I was vague in the head from\
lying in the hay. I had been nearly asleep.\
\
\'93Where\'92s Bonello?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you,\'94 Piani said. We went up the ladder. Up on the hay we set\
the things down. Piani took out his knife with the corkscrew and drew\
the cork on a wine bottle.\
\
\'93They have sealing-wax on it,\'94 he said. \'93It must be good.\'94 He smiled.\
\
\'93Where\'92s Bonello?\'94 I asked.\
\
Piani looked at me.\
\
\'93He went away, Tenente,\'94 he said. \'93He wanted to be a prisoner.\'94\
\
I did not say anything.\
\
\'93He was afraid we would get killed.\'94\
\
I held the bottle of wine and did not say anything.\
\
\'93You see we don\'92t believe in the war anyway, Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93Why didn\'92t you go?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93I did not want to leave you.\'94\
\
\'93Where did he go?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know, Tenente. He went away.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93Will you cut the sausage?\'94\
\
Piani looked at me in the half-light.\
\
\'93I cut it while we were talking,\'94 he said. We sat in the hay and ate the\
sausage and drank the wine. It must have been wine they had saved for a\
wedding. It was so old that it was losing its color.\
\
\'93You look out of this window, Luigi,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll go look out the\
other window.\'94\
\
We had each been drinking out of one of the bottles and I took my bottle\
with me and went over and lay flat on the hay and looked out the narrow\
window at the wet country. I do not know what I expected to see but I\
did not see anything except the fields and the bare mulberry trees and\
the rain falling. I drank the wine and it did not make me feel good.\
They had kept it too long and it had gone to pieces and lost its quality\
and color. I watched it get dark outside; the darkness came very\
quickly. It would be a black night with the rain. When it was dark there\
was no use watching any more, so I went over to Piani. He was lying\
asleep and I did not wake him but sat down beside him for a while. He\
was a big man and he slept heavily. After a while I woke him and we\
started.\
\
That was a very strange night. I do not know what I had expected, death\
perhaps and shooting in the dark and running, but nothing happened. We\
waited, lying flat beyond the ditch along the main road while a German\
battalion passed, then when they were gone we crossed the road and went\
on to the north. We were very close to Germans twice in the rain but\
they did not see us. We got past the town to the north without seeing\
any Italians, then after a while came on the main channels of the\
retreat and walked all night toward the Tagliamento. I had not realized\
how gigantic the retreat was. The whole country was moving, as well as\
the army. We walked all night, making better time than the vehicles. My\
leg ached and I was tired but we made good time. It seemed so silly for\
Bonello to have decided to be taken prisoner. There was no danger. We\
had walked through two armies without incident. If Aymo had not been\
killed there would never have seemed to be any danger. No one had\
bothered us when we were in plain sight along the railway. The killing\
came suddenly and unreasonably. I wondered where Bonello was.\
\
\'93How do you feel, Tenente?\'94 Piani asked. We were going along the side of\
a road crowded with vehicles and troops.\
\
\'93Fine.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m tired of this walking.\'94\
\
\'93Well, all we have to do is walk now. We don\'92t have to worry.\'94\
\
\'93Bonello was a fool.\'94\
\
\'93He was a fool all right.\'94\
\
\'93What will you do about him, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t you just put him down as taken prisoner?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93You see if the war went on they would make bad trouble for his family.\'94\
\
\'93The war won\'92t go on,\'94 a soldier said. \'93We\'92re going home. The war is\
over.\'94\
\
\'93Everybody\'92s going home.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re all going home.\'94\
\
\'93Come on, Tenente,\'94 Piani said. He wanted to get past them.\
\
\'93Tenente? Who\'92s a Tenente? _A basso gli ufficiali!_ Down with the\
officers!\'94\
\
Piani took me by the arm. \'93I better call you by your name,\'94 he said.\
\'93They might try and make trouble. They\'92ve shot some officers.\'94 We worked\
up past them.\
\
\'93I won\'92t make a report that will make trouble for his family.\'94 I went on\
with our conversation.\
\
\'93If the war is over it makes no difference,\'94 Piani said. \'93But I don\'92t\
believe it\'92s over. It\'92s too good that it should be over.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll know pretty soon,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe it\'92s over. They all think it\'92s over but I don\'92t believe\
it.\'94\
\
\'93_Viva la Pace!_\'94 a soldier shouted out. \'93We\'92re going home!\'94\
\
\'93It would be fine if we all went home,\'94 Piani said. \'93Wouldn\'92t you like\
to go home?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll never go. I don\'92t think it\'92s over.\'94\
\
\'93_Andiamo a casa!_\'94 a soldier shouted.\
\
\'93They throw away their rifles,\'94 Piani said. \'93They take them off and drop\
them down while they\'92re marching. Then they shout.\'94\
\
\'93They ought to keep their rifles.\'94\
\
\'93They think if they throw away their rifles they can\'92t make them fight.\'94\
\
In the dark and the rain, making our way along the side of the road I\
could see that many of the troops still had their rifles. They stuck up\
above the capes.\
\
\'93What brigade are you?\'94 an officer called out.\
\
\'93_Brigata di Pace_,\'94 some one shouted. \'93Peace Brigade!\'94 The officer said\
nothing.\
\
\'93What does he say? What does the officer say?\'94\
\
\'93Down with the officer. _Viva la Pace!_\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 Piani said. We passed two British ambulances, abandoned in\
the block of vehicles.\
\
\'93They\'92re from Gorizia,\'94 Piani said. \'93I know the cars.\'94\
\
\'93They got further than we did.\'94\
\
\'93They started earlier.\'94\
\
\'93I wonder where the drivers are?\'94\
\
\'93Up ahead probably.\'94\
\
\'93The Germans have stopped outside Udine,\'94 I said. \'93These people will all\
get across the river.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 Piani said. \'93That\'92s why I think the war will go on.\'94\
\
\'93The Germans could come on,\'94 I said. \'93I wonder why they don\'92t come on.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I don\'92t know anything about this kind of war.\'94\
\
\'93They have to wait for their transport I suppose.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Piani said. Alone he was much gentler. When he was with\
the others he was a very rough talker.\
\
\'93Are you married, Luigi?\'94\
\
\'93You know I am married.\'94\
\
\'93Is that why you did not want to be a prisoner?\'94\
\
\'93That is one reason. Are you married, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Neither is Bonello.\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t tell anything by a man\'92s being married. But I should think a\
married man would want to get back to his wife,\'94 I said. I would be glad\
to talk about wives.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93How are your feet?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re sore enough.\'94\
\
Before daylight we reached the bank of the Tagliamento and followed down\
along the flooded river to the bridge where all the traffic was\
crossing.\
\
\'93They ought to be able to hold at this river,\'94 Piani said. In the dark\
the flood looked high. The water swirled and it was wide. The wooden\
bridge was nearly three-quarters of a mile across, and the river, that\
usually ran in narrow channels in the wide stony bed far below the\
bridge, was close under the wooden planking. We went along the bank and\
then worked our way into the crowd that were crossing the bridge.\
Crossing slowly in the rain a few feet above the flood, pressed tight in\
the crowd, the box of an artillery caisson just ahead, I looked over the\
side and watched the river. Now that we could not go our own pace I felt\
very tired. There was no exhilaration in crossing the bridge. I wondered\
what it would be like if a plane bombed it in the daytime.\
\
\'93Piani,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Here I am, Tenente.\'94 He was a little ahead in the jam. No one was\
talking. They were all trying to get across as soon as they could:\
thinking only of that. We were almost across. At the far end of the\
bridge there were officers and carabinieri standing on both sides\
flashing lights. I saw them silhouetted against the sky-line. As we came\
close to them I saw one of the officers point to a man in the column. A\
carabiniere went in after him and came out holding the man by the arm.\
He took him away from the road. We came almost opposite them. The\
officers were scrutinizing every one in the column, sometimes speaking\
to each other, going forward to flash a light in some one\'92s face. They\
took some one else out just before we came opposite. I saw the man. He\
was a lieutenant-colonel. I saw the stars in the box on his sleeve as\
they flashed a light on him. His hair was gray and he was short and fat.\
The carabiniere pulled him in behind the line of officers. As we came\
opposite I saw one or two of them look at me. Then one pointed at me and\
spoke to a carabiniere. I saw the carabiniere start for me, come through\
the edge of the column toward me, then felt him take me by the collar.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter with you?\'94 I said and hit him in the face. I saw his\
face under the hat, upturned mustaches and blood coming down his cheek.\
Another one dove in toward us.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter with you?\'94 I said. He did not answer. He was watching\
a chance to grab me. I put my arm behind me to loosen my pistol.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you know you can\'92t touch an officer?\'94\
\
The other one grabbed me from behind and pulled my arm up so that it\
twisted in the socket. I turned with him and the other one grabbed me\
around the neck. I kicked his shins and got my left knee into his groin.\
\
\'93Shoot him if he resists,\'94 I heard some one say.\
\
\'93What\'92s the meaning of this?\'94 I tried to shout but my voice was not very\
loud. They had me at the side of the road now.\
\
\'93Shoot him if he resists,\'94 an officer said. \'93Take him over back.\'94\
\
\'93Who are you?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll find out.\'94\
\
\'93Who are you?\'94\
\
\'93Battle police,\'94 another officer said.\
\
\'93Why don\'92t you ask me to step over instead of having one of these\
airplanes grab me?\'94\
\
They did not answer. They did not have to answer. They were battle\
police.\
\
\'93Take him back there with the others,\'94 the first officer said. \'93You see.\
He speaks Italian with an accent.\'94\
\
\'93So do you, you \'97\'97,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Take him back with the others,\'94 the first officer said. They took me\
down behind the line of officers below the road toward a group of people\
in a field by the river bank. As we walked toward them shots were fired.\
I saw flashes of the rifles and heard the reports. We came up to the\
group. There were four officers standing together, with a man in front\
of them with a carabiniere on each side of him. A group of men were\
standing guarded by carabinieri. Four other carabinieri stood near the\
questioning officers, leaning on their carbines. They were wide-hatted\
carabinieri. The two who had me shoved me in with the group waiting to\
be questioned. I looked at the man the officers were questioning. He was\
the fat gray-haired little lieutenant-colonel they had taken out of the\
column. The questioners had all the efficiency, coldness and command of\
themselves of Italians who are firing and are not being fired on.\
\
\'93Your brigade?\'94\
\
He told them.\
\
\'93Regiment?\'94\
\
He told them.\
\
\'93Why are you not with your regiment?\'94\
\
He told them.\
\
\'93Do you not know that an officer should be with his troops?\'94\
\
He did.\
\
That was all. Another officer spoke.\
\
\'93It is you and such as you that have let the barbarians onto the sacred\
soil of the fatherland.\'94\
\
\'93I beg your pardon,\'94 said the lieutenant-colonel.\
\
\'93It is because of treachery such as yours that we have lost the fruits\
of victory.\'94\
\
\'93Have you ever been in a retreat?\'94 the lieutenant-colonel asked.\
\
\'93Italy should never retreat.\'94\
\
We stood there in the rain and listened to this. We were facing the\
officers and the prisoner stood in front and a little to one side of us.\
\
\'93If you are going to shoot me,\'94 the lieutenant-colonel said, \'93please\
shoot me at once without further questioning. The questioning is\
stupid.\'94 He made the sign of the cross. The officers spoke together. One\
wrote something on a pad of paper.\
\
\'93Abandoned his troops, ordered to be shot,\'94 he said.\
\
Two carabinieri took the lieutenant-colonel to the river bank. He walked\
in the rain, an old man with his hat off, a carabiniere on either side.\
I did not watch them shoot him but I heard the shots. They were\
questioning some one else. This officer too was separated from his\
troops. He was not allowed to make an explanation. He cried when they\
read the sentence from the pad of paper, and they were questioning\
another when they shot him. They made a point of being intent on\
questioning the next man while the man who had been questioned before\
was being shot. In this way there was obviously nothing they could do\
about it. I did not know whether I should wait to be questioned or make\
a break now. I was obviously a German in Italian uniform. I saw how\
their minds worked; if they had minds and if they worked. They were all\
young men and they were saving their country. The second army was being\
re-formed beyond the Tagliamento. They were executing officers of the\
rank of major and above who were separated from their troops. They were\
also dealing summarily with German agitators in Italian uniform. They\
wore steel helmets. Only two of us had steel helmets. Some of the\
carabinieri had them. The other carabinieri wore the wide hat. Airplanes\
we called them. We stood in the rain and were taken out one at a time to\
be questioned and shot. So far they had shot every one they had\
questioned. The questioners had that beautiful detachment and devotion\
to stern justice of men dealing in death without being in any danger of\
it. They were questioning a full colonel of a line regiment. Three more\
officers had just been put in with us.\
\
\'93Where was his regiment?\'94\
\
I looked at the carabinieri. They were looking at the newcomers. The\
others were looking at the colonel. I ducked down, pushed between two\
men, and ran for the river, my head down. I tripped at the edge and went\
in with a splash. The water was very cold and I stayed under as long as\
I could. I could feel the current swirl me and I stayed under until I\
thought I could never come up. The minute I came up I took a breath and\
went down again. It was easy to stay under with so much clothing and my\
boots. When I came up the second time I saw a piece of timber ahead of\
me and reached it and held on with one hand. I kept my head behind it\
and did not even look over it. I did not want to see the bank. There\
were shots when I ran and shots when I came up the first time. I heard\
them when I was almost above water. There were no shots now. The piece\
of timber swung in the current and I held it with one hand. I looked at\
the bank. It seemed to be going by very fast. There was much wood in the\
stream. The water was very cold. We passed the brush of an island above\
the water. I held onto the timber with both hands and let it take me\
along. The shore was out of sight now.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XXXI\
\
You do not know how long you are in a river when the current moves\
swiftly. It seems a long time and it may be very short. The water was\
cold and in flood and many things passed that had been floated off the\
banks when the river rose. I was lucky to have a heavy timber to hold on\
to, and I lay in the icy water with my chin on the wood, holding as\
easily as I could with both hands. I was afraid of cramps and I hoped we\
would move toward the shore. We went down the river in a long curve. It\
was beginning to be light enough so I could see the bushes along the\
shore-line. There was a brush island ahead and the current moved toward\
the shore. I wondered if I should take off my boots and clothes and try\
to swim ashore, but decided not to. I had never thought of anything but\
that I would reach the shore some way, and I would be in a bad position\
if I landed barefoot. I had to get to Mestre some way.\
\
I watched the shore come close, then swing away, then come closer again.\
We were floating more slowly. The shore was very close now. I could see\
twigs on the willow bush. The timber swung slowly so that the bank was\
behind me and I knew we were in an eddy. We went slowly around. As I saw\
the bank again, very close now, I tried holding with one arm and kicking\
and swimming the timber toward the bank with the other, but I did not\
bring it any closer. I was afraid we would move out of the eddy and,\
holding with one hand, I drew up my feet so they were against the side\
of the timber and shoved hard toward the bank. I could see the brush,\
but even with my momentum and swimming as hard as I could, the current\
was taking me away. I thought then I would drown because of my boots,\
but I thrashed and fought through the water, and when I looked up the\
bank was coming toward me, and I kept thrashing and swimming in a\
heavy-footed panic until I reached it. I hung to the willow branch and\
did not have strength to pull myself up but I knew I would not drown\
now. It had never occurred to me on the timber that I might drown. I\
felt hollow and sick in my stomach and chest from the effort, and I held\
to the branches and waited. When the sick feeling was gone I pulled into\
the willow bushes and rested again, my arms around some brush, holding\
tight with my hands to the branches. Then I crawled out, pushed on\
through the willows and onto the bank. It was half-daylight and I saw no\
one. I lay flat on the bank and heard the river and the rain.\
\
After a while I got up and started along the bank. I knew there was no\
bridge across the river until Latisana. I thought I might be opposite\
San Vito. I began to think out what I should do. Ahead there was a ditch\
running into the river. I went toward it. So far I had seen no one and I\
sat down by some bushes along the bank of the ditch and took off my\
shoes and emptied them of water. I took off my coat, took my wallet with\
my papers and my money all wet in it out of the inside pocket and then\
wrung the coat out. I took off my trousers and wrung them too, then my\
shirt and underclothing. I slapped and rubbed myself and then dressed\
again. I had lost my cap.\
\
Before I put on my coat I cut the cloth stars off my sleeves and put\
them in the inside pocket with my money. My money was wet but was all\
right. I counted it. There were three thousand and some lire. My clothes\
felt wet and clammy and I slapped my arms to keep the circulation going.\
I had woven underwear and I did not think I would catch cold if I kept\
moving. They had taken my pistol at the road and I put the holster under\
my coat. I had no cape and it was cold in the rain. I started up the\
bank of the canal. It was daylight and the country was wet, low and\
dismal looking. The fields were bare and wet; a long way away I could\
see a campanile rising out of the plain. I came up onto a road. Ahead I\
saw some troops coming down the road. I limped along the side of the\
road and they passed me and paid no attention to me. They were a\
machine-gun detachment going up toward the river. I went on down the\
road.\
\
That day I crossed the Venetian plain. It is a low level country and\
under the rain it is even flatter. Toward the sea there are salt marshes\
and very few roads. The roads all go along the river mouths to the sea\
and to cross the country you must go along the paths beside the canals.\
I was working across the country from the north to the south and had\
crossed two railway lines and many roads and finally I came out at the\
end of a path onto a railway line where it ran beside a marsh. It was\
the main line from Venice to Trieste, with a high solid embankment, a\
solid roadbed and double track. Down the tracks a way was a flag-station\
and I could see soldiers on guard. Up the line there was a bridge over a\
stream that flowed into the marsh. I could see a guard too at the\
bridge. Crossing the fields to the north I had seen a train pass on this\
railroad, visible a long way across the flat plain, and I thought a\
train might come from Portogruaro. I watched the guards and lay down on\
the embankment so that I could see both ways along the track. The guard\
at the bridge walked a way up the line toward where I lay, then turned\
and went back toward the bridge. I lay, and was hungry, and waited for\
the train. The one I had seen was so long that the engine moved it very\
slowly and I was sure I could get aboard it. After I had almost given up\
hoping for one I saw a train coming. The engine, coming straight on,\
grew larger slowly. I looked at the guard at the bridge. He was walking\
on the near side of the bridge but on the other side of the tracks. That\
would put him out of sight when the train passed. I watched the engine\
come nearer. It was working hard. I could see there were many cars. I\
knew there would be guards on the train, and I tried to see where they\
were, but, keeping out of sight, I could not. The engine was almost to\
where I was lying. When it came opposite, working and puffing even on\
the level, and I saw the engineer pass, I stood up and stepped up close\
to the passing cars. If the guards were watching I was a less suspicious\
object standing beside the track. Several closed freight-cars passed.\
Then I saw a low open car of the sort they call gondolas coming, covered\
with canvas. I stood until it had almost passed, then jumped and caught\
the rear hand-rods and pulled up. I crawled down between the gondola and\
the shelter of the high freight-car behind. I did not think any one had\
seen me. I was holding to the hand-rods and crouching low, my feet on\
the coupling. We were almost opposite the bridge. I remembered the\
guard. As we passed him he looked at me. He was a boy and his helmet was\
too big for him. I stared at him contemptuously and he looked away. He\
thought I had something to do with the train.\
\
We were past. I saw him still looking uncomfortable, watching the other\
cars pass and I stooped to see how the canvas was fastened. It had\
grummets and was laced down at the edge with cord. I took out my knife,\
cut the cord and put my arm under. There were hard bulges under the\
canvas that tightened in the rain. I looked up and ahead. There was a\
guard on the freight-car ahead but he was looking forward. I let go of\
the hand-rails and ducked under the canvas. My forehead hit something\
that gave me a violent bump and I felt blood on my face but I crawled on\
in and lay flat. Then I turned around and fastened down the canvas.\
\
I was in under the canvas with guns. They smelled cleanly of oil and\
grease. I lay and listened to the rain on the canvas and the clicking of\
the car over the rails. There was a little light came through and I lay\
and looked at the guns. They had their canvas jackets on. I thought they\
must have been sent ahead from the third army. The bump on my forehead\
was swollen and I stopped the bleeding by lying still and letting it\
coagulate, then picked away the dried blood except over the cut. It was\
nothing. I had no handkerchief, but feeling with my fingers I washed\
away where the dried blood had been, with rain-water that dripped from\
the canvas, and wiped it clean with the sleeve of my coat. I did not\
want to look conspicuous. I knew I would have to get out before they got\
to Mestre because they would be taking care of these guns. They had no\
guns to lose or forget about. I was terrifically hungry.\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XXXII\
\
Lying on the floor of the flat-car with the guns beside me under the\
canvas I was wet, cold and very hungry. Finally I rolled over and lay\
flat on my stomach with my head on my arms. My knee was stiff, but it\
had been very satisfactory. Valentini had done a fine job. I had done\
half the retreat on foot and swum part of the Tagliamento with his knee.\
It was his knee all right. The other knee was mine. Doctors did things\
to you and then it was not your body any more. The head was mine, and\
the inside of the belly. It was very hungry in there. I could feel it\
turn over on itself. The head was mine, but not to use, not to think\
with; only to remember and not too much remember.\
\
I could remember Catherine but I knew I would get crazy if I thought\
about her when I was not sure yet I would see her, so I would not think\
about her, only about her a little, only about her with the car going\
slowly and clickingly, and some light through the canvas and my lying\
with Catherine on the floor of the car. Hard as the floor of the car to\
lie not thinking only feeling, having been away too long, the clothes\
wet and the floor moving only a little each time and lonesome inside and\
alone with wet clothing and hard floor for a wife.\
\
You did not love the floor of a flat-car nor guns with canvas jackets\
and the smell of vaselined metal or a canvas that rain leaked through,\
although it is very fine under a canvas and pleasant with guns; but you\
loved some one else whom now you knew was not even to be pretended\
there; you seeing now very clearly and coldly\'97not so coldly as clearly\
and emptily. You saw emptily, lying on your stomach, having been present\
when one army moved back and another came forward. You had lost your\
cars and your men as a floorwalker loses the stock of his department in\
a fire. There was, however, no insurance. You were out of it now. You\
had no more obligation. If they shot floorwalkers after a fire in the\
department store because they spoke with an accent they had always had,\
then certainly the floorwalkers would not be expected to return when the\
store opened again for business. They might seek other employment; if\
there was any other employment and the police did not get them.\
\
Anger was washed away in the river along with any obligation. Although\
that ceased when the carabiniere put his hands on my collar. I would\
like to have had the uniform off although I did not care much about the\
outward forms. I had taken off the stars, but that was for convenience.\
It was no point of honor. I was not against them. I was through. I\
wished them all the luck. There were the good ones, and the brave ones,\
and the calm ones and the sensible ones, and they deserved it. But it\
was not my show any more and I wished this bloody train would get to\
Mestre and I would eat and stop thinking. I would have to stop.\
\
Piani would tell them they had shot me. They went through the pockets\
and took the papers of the people they shot. They would not have my\
papers. They might call me drowned. I wondered what they would hear in\
the States. Dead from wounds and other causes. Good Christ I was hungry.\
I wondered what had become of the priest at the mess. And Rinaldi. He\
was probably at Pordenone. If they had not gone further back. Well, I\
would never see him now. I would never see any of them now. That life\
was over. I did not think he had syphilis. It was not a serious disease\
anyway if you took it in time, they said. But he would worry. I would\
worry too if I had it. Any one would worry.\
\
I was not made to think. I was made to eat. My God, yes. Eat and drink\
and sleep with Catherine. To-night maybe. No that was impossible. But\
to-morrow night, and a good meal and sheets and never going away again\
except together. Probably have to go damned quickly. She would go. I\
knew she would go. When would we go? That was something to think about.\
It was getting dark. I lay and thought where we would go. There were\
many places.\
\
\
\
\
                                BOOK IV\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XXXIII\
\
I dropped off the train in Milan as it slowed to come into the station\
early in the morning before it was light. I crossed the track and came\
out between some buildings and down onto the street. A wine shop was\
open and I went in for some coffee. It smelled of early morning, of\
swept dust, spoons in coffee-glasses and the wet circles left by\
wine-glasses. The proprietor was behind the bar. Two soldiers sat at a\
table. I stood at the bar and drank a glass of coffee and ate a piece of\
bread. The coffee was gray with milk, and I skimmed the milk scum off\
the top with a piece of bread. The proprietor looked at me.\
\
\'93You want a glass of grappa?\'94\
\
\'93No thanks.\'94\
\
\'93On me,\'94 he said and poured a small glass and pushed it toward me.\
\'93What\'92s happening at the front?\'94\
\
\'93I would not know.\'94\
\
\'93They are drunk,\'94 he said, moving his hand toward the two soldiers. I\
could believe him. They looked drunk.\
\
\'93Tell me,\'94 he said, \'93what is happening at the front?\'94\
\
\'93I would not know about the front.\'94\
\
\'93I saw you come down the wall. You came off the train.\'94\
\
\'93There is a big retreat.\'94\
\
\'93I read the papers. What happens? Is it over?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so.\'94\
\
He filled the glass with grappa from a short bottle. \'93If you are in\
trouble,\'94 he said, \'93I can keep you.\'94\
\
\'93I am not in trouble.\'94\
\
\'93If you are in trouble stay here with me.\'94\
\
\'93Where does one stay?\'94\
\
\'93In the building. Many stay here. Any who are in trouble stay here.\'94\
\
\'93Are many in trouble?\'94\
\
\'93It depends on the trouble. You are a South American?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Speak Spanish?\'94\
\
\'93A little.\'94\
\
He wiped off the bar.\
\
\'93It is hard now to leave the country but in no way impossible.\'94\
\
\'93I have no wish to leave.\'94\
\
\'93You can stay here as long as you want. You will see what sort of man I\
am.\'94\
\
\'93I have to go this morning but I will remember the address to return.\'94\
\
He shook his head. \'93You won\'92t come back if you talk like that. I thought\
you were in real trouble.\'94\
\
\'93I am in no trouble. But I value the address of a friend.\'94\
\
I put a ten-lira note on the bar to pay for the coffee.\
\
\'93Have a grappa with me,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93It is not necessary.\'94\
\
\'93Have one.\'94\
\
He poured the two glasses.\
\
\'93Remember,\'94 he said. \'93Come here. Do not let other people take you in.\
Here you are all right.\'94\
\
\'93I am sure.\'94\
\
\'93You are sure?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
He was serious. \'93Then let me tell you one thing. Do not go about with\
that coat.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93On the sleeves it shows very plainly where the stars have been cut\
away. The cloth is a different color.\'94\
\
I did not say anything.\
\
\'93If you have no papers I can give you papers.\'94\
\
\'93What papers?\'94\
\
\'93Leave-papers.\'94\
\
\'93I have no need for papers. I have papers.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 he said. \'93But if you need papers I can get what you wish.\'94\
\
\'93How much are such papers?\'94\
\
\'93It depends on what they are. The price is reasonable.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t need any now.\'94\
\
He shrugged his shoulders.\
\
\'93I\'92m all right,\'94 I said.\
\
When I went out he said, \'93Don\'92t forget that I am your friend.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93I will see you again,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Good,\'94 I said.\
\
Outside I kept away from the station, where there were military police,\
and picked up a cab at the edge of the little park. I gave the driver\
the address of the hospital. At the hospital I went to the porter\'92s\
lodge. His wife embraced me. He shook my hand.\
\
\'93You are back. You are safe.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Have you had breakfast?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93How are you, Tenente? How are you?\'94 the wife asked.\
\
\'93Fine.\'94\
\
\'93Won\'92t you have breakfast with us?\'94\
\
\'93No, thank you. Tell me is Miss Barkley here at the hospital now?\'94\
\
\'93Miss Barkley?\'94\
\
\'93The English lady nurse.\'94\
\
\'93His girl,\'94 the wife said. She patted my arm and smiled.\
\
\'93No,\'94 the porter said. \'93She is away.\'94\
\
My heart went down. \'93You are sure? I mean the tall blonde English young\
lady.\'94\
\
\'93I am sure. She is gone to Stresa.\'94\
\
\'93When did she go?\'94\
\
\'93She went two days ago with the other lady English.\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 I said. \'93I wish you to do something for me. Do not tell any one\
you have seen me. It is very important.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t tell any one,\'94 the porter said. I gave him a ten-lira note. He\
pushed it away.\
\
\'93I promise you I will tell no one,\'94 he said. \'93I don\'92t want any money.\'94\
\
\'93What can we do for you, Signor Tenente?\'94 his wife asked.\
\
\'93Only that,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93We are dumb,\'94 the porter said. \'93You will let me know anything I can\
do?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93Good-by. I will see you again.\'94\
\
They stood in the door, looking after me.\
\
I got into the cab and gave the driver the address of Simmons, one of\
the men I knew who was studying singing.\
\
Simmons lived a long way out in the town toward the Porta Magenta. He\
was still in bed and sleepy when I went to see him.\
\
\'93You get up awfully early, Henry,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93I came in on the early train.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s all this retreat? Were you at the front? Will you have a\
cigarette? They\'92re in that box on the table.\'94 It was a big room with a\
bed beside the wall, a piano over on the far side and a dresser and\
table. I sat on a chair by the bed. Simmons sat propped up by the\
pillows and smoked.\
\
\'93I\'92m in a jam, Sim,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93So am I,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m always in a jam. Won\'92t you smoke?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93What\'92s the procedure in going to Switzerland?\'94\
\
\'93For you? The Italians wouldn\'92t let you out of the country.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I know that. But the Swiss. What will they do?\'94\
\
\'93They intern you.\'94\
\
\'93I know. But what\'92s the mechanics of it?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing. It\'92s very simple. You can go anywhere. I think you just have\
to report or something. Why? Are you fleeing the police?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing definite yet.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t tell me if you don\'92t want. But it would be interesting to hear.\
Nothing happens here. I was a great flop at Piacenza.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m awfully sorry.\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes\'97I went very badly. I sung well too. I\'92m going to try it again\
at the Lyrico here.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to be there.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re awfully polite. You aren\'92t in a bad mess, are you?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t tell me if you don\'92t want. How do you happen to be away from the\
bloody front?\'94\
\
\'93I think I\'92m through with it.\'94\
\
\'93Good boy. I always knew you had sense. Can I help you any way?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re awfully busy.\'94\
\
\'93Not a bit of it, my dear Henry. Not a bit of it. I\'92d be happy to do\
anything.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re about my size. Would you go out and buy me an outfit of civilian\
clothes? I\'92ve clothes but they\'92re all at Rome.\'94\
\
\'93You did live there, didn\'92t you? It\'92s a filthy place. How did you ever\
live there?\'94\
\
\'93I wanted to be an architect.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s no place for that. Don\'92t buy clothes. I\'92ll give you all the\
clothes you want. I\'92ll fit you out so you\'92ll be a great success. Go in\
that dressing room. There\'92s a closet. Take anything you want. My dear\
fellow, you don\'92t want to buy clothes.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d rather buy them, Sim.\'94\
\
\'93My dear fellow, it\'92s easier for me to let you have them than go out and\
buy them. Have you got a passport? You won\'92t get far without a\
passport.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I\'92ve still got my passport.\'94\
\
\'93Then get dressed, my dear fellow, and off to old Helvetia.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not that simple. I have to go up to Stresa first.\'94\
\
\'93Ideal, my dear fellow. You just row a boat across. If I wasn\'92t trying\
to sing, I\'92d go with you. I\'92ll go yet.\'94\
\
\'93You could take up yodelling.\'94\
\
\'93My dear fellow, I\'92ll take up yodelling yet. I really can sing though.\
That\'92s the strange part.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll bet you can sing.\'94\
\
He lay back in bed smoking a cigarette.\
\
\'93Don\'92t bet too much. But I can sing though. It\'92s damned funny, but I\
can. I like to sing. Listen.\'94 He roared into \'93Africana,\'94 his neck\
swelling, the veins standing out. \'93I can sing,\'94 he said. \'93Whether they\
like it or not.\'94 I looked out of the window. \'93I\'92ll go down and let my\
cab go.\'94\
\
\'93Come back up, my dear fellow, and we\'92ll have breakfast.\'94 He stepped out\
of bed, stood straight, took a deep breath and commenced doing bending\
exercises. I went downstairs and paid off the cab.\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XXXIV\
\
In civilian clothes I felt a masquerader. I had been in uniform a long\
time and I missed the feeling of being held by your clothes. The\
trousers felt very floppy. I had bought a ticket at Milan for Stresa. I\
had also bought a new hat. I could not wear Sim\'92s hat but his clothes\
were fine. They smelled of tobacco and as I sat in the compartment and\
looked out the window the new hat felt very new and the clothes very\
old. I myself felt as sad as the wet Lombard country that was outside\
through the window. There were some aviators in the compartment who did\
not think much of me. They avoided looking at me and were very scornful\
of a civilian my age. I did not feel insulted. In the old days I would\
have insulted them and picked a fight. They got off at Gallarate and I\
was glad to be alone. I had the paper but I did not read it because I\
did not want to read about the war. I was going to forget the war. I had\
made a separate peace. I felt damned lonely and was glad when the train\
got to Stresa.\
\
At the station I had expected to see the porters from the hotels but\
there was no one. The season had been over a long time and no one met\
the train. I got down from the train with my bag, it was Sim\'92s bag, and\
very light to carry, being empty except for two shirts, and stood under\
the roof of the station in the rain while the train went on. I found a\
man in the station and asked him if he knew what hotels were open. The\
Grand-H\'f4tel & des Isles Borrom\'e9es was open and several small hotels that\
stayed open all the year. I started in the rain for the Isles Borrom\'e9es\
carrying my bag. I saw a carriage coming down the street and signalled\
to the driver. It was better to arrive in a carriage. We drove up to the\
carriage entrance of the big hotel and the concierge came out with an\
umbrella and was very polite.\
\
I took a good room. It was very big and light and looked out on the\
lake. The clouds were down over the lake but it would be beautiful with\
the sunlight. I was expecting my wife, I said. There was a big double\
bed, a _letto matrimoniale_ with a satin coverlet. The hotel was very\
luxurious. I went down the long halls, down the wide stairs, through the\
rooms to the bar. I knew the barman and sat on a high stool and ate\
salted almonds and potato chips. The martini felt cool and clean.\
\
\'93What are you doing here in _borghese_?\'94 the barman asked after he had\
mixed a second martini.\
\
\'93I am on leave. Convalescing-leave.\'94\
\
\'93There is no one here. I don\'92t know why they keep the hotel open.\'94\
\
\'93Have you been fishing?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve caught some beautiful pieces. Trolling this time of year you catch\
some beautiful pieces.\'94\
\
\'93Did you ever get the tobacco I sent?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Didn\'92t you get my card?\'94\
\
I laughed. I had not been able to get the tobacco. It was American\
pipe-tobacco that he wanted, but my relatives had stopped sending it or\
it was being held up. Anyway it never came.\
\
\'93I\'92ll get some somewhere,\'94 I said. \'93Tell me have you seen two English\
girls in the town? They came here day before yesterday.\'94\
\
\'93They are not at the hotel.\'94\
\
\'93They are nurses.\'94\
\
\'93I have seen two nurses. Wait a minute, I will find out where they are.\'94\
\
\'93One of them is my wife,\'94 I said. \'93I have come here to meet her.\'94\
\
\'93The other is my wife.\'94\
\
\'93I am not joking.\'94\
\
\'93Pardon my stupid joke,\'94 he said. \'93I did not understand.\'94 He went away\
and was gone quite a little while. I ate olives, salted almonds and\
potato chips and looked at myself in civilian clothes in the mirror\
behind the bar. The bartender came back. \'93They are at the little hotel\
near the station,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93How about some sandwiches?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll ring for some. You understand there is nothing here, now there are\
no people.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t there really any one at all?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. There are a few people.\'94\
\
The sandwiches came and I ate three and drank a couple more martinis. I\
had never tasted anything so cool and clean. They made me feel\
civilized. I had had too much red wine, bread, cheese, bad coffee and\
grappa. I sat on the high stool before the pleasant mahogany, the brass\
and the mirrors and did not think at all. The barman asked me some\
question.\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk about the war,\'94 I said. The war was a long way away. Maybe\
there wasn\'92t any war. There was no war here. Then I realized it was over\
for me. But I did not have the feeling that it was really over. I had\
the feeling of a boy who thinks of what is happening at a certain hour\
at the schoolhouse from which he has played truant.\
\
\
\
Catherine and Helen Ferguson were at supper when I came to their hotel.\
Standing in the hallway I saw them at table. Catherine\'92s face was away\
from me and I saw the line of her hair and her cheek and her lovely neck\
and shoulders. Ferguson was talking. She stopped when I came in.\
\
\'93My God,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93Hello,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Why it\'92s you!\'94 Catherine said. Her face lighted up. She looked too\
happy to believe it. I kissed her. Catherine blushed and I sat down at\
the table.\
\
\'93You\'92re a fine mess,\'94 Ferguson said. \'93What are you doing here? Have you\
eaten?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94 The girl who was serving the meal came in and I told her to bring\
a plate for me. Catherine looked at me all the time, her eyes happy.\
\
\'93What are you doing in mufti?\'94 Ferguson asked.\
\
\'93I\'92m in the Cabinet.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re in some mess.\'94\
\
\'93Cheer up, Fergy. Cheer up just a little.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not cheered by seeing you. I know the mess you\'92ve gotten this girl\
into. You\'92re no cheerful sight to me.\'94\
\
Catherine smiled at me and touched me with her foot under the table.\
\
\'93No one got me in a mess, Fergy. I get in my own messes.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t stand him,\'94 Ferguson said. \'93He\'92s done nothing but ruin you with\
his sneaking Italian tricks. Americans are worse than Italians.\'94\
\
\'93The Scotch are such a moral people,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t mean that. I mean his Italian sneakiness.\'94\
\
\'93Am I sneaky, Fergy?\'94\
\
\'93You are. You\'92re worse than sneaky. You\'92re like a snake. A snake with an\
Italian uniform: with a cape around your neck.\'94\
\
\'93I haven\'92t got an Italian uniform now.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s just another example of your sneakiness. You had a love affair\
all summer and got this girl with child and now I suppose you\'92ll sneak\
off.\'94\
\
I smiled at Catherine and she smiled at me.\
\
\'93We\'92ll both sneak off,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93You\'92re two of the same thing,\'94 Ferguson said. \'93I\'92m ashamed of you,\
Catherine Barkley. You have no shame and no honor and you\'92re as sneaky\
as he is.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t, Fergy,\'94 Catherine said and patted her hand. \'93Don\'92t denounce me.\
You know we like each other.\'94\
\
\'93Take your hand away,\'94 Ferguson said. Her face was red. \'93If you had any\
shame it would be different. But you\'92re God knows how many months gone\
with child and you think it\'92s a joke and are all smiles because your\
seducer\'92s come back. You\'92ve no shame and no feelings.\'94 She began to cry.\
Catherine went over and put her arm around her. As she stood comforting\
Ferguson, I could see no change in her figure.\
\
\'93I don\'92t care,\'94 Ferguson sobbed. \'93I think it\'92s dreadful.\'94\
\
\'93There, there, Fergy,\'94 Catherine comforted her. \'93I\'92ll be ashamed. Don\'92t\
cry, Fergy. Don\'92t cry, old Fergy.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not crying,\'94 Ferguson sobbed. \'93I\'92m not crying. Except for the awful\
thing you\'92ve gotten into.\'94 She looked at me. \'93I hate you,\'94 she said.\
\'93She can\'92t make me not hate you. You dirty sneaking American Italian.\'94\
Her eyes and nose were red with crying.\
\
Catherine smiled at me.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you smile at him with your arm around me.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re unreasonable, Fergy.\'94\
\
\'93I know it,\'94 Ferguson sobbed. \'93You mustn\'92t mind me, either of you. I\'92m\
so upset. I\'92m not reasonable. I know it. I want you both to be happy.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re happy,\'94 Catherine said. \'93You\'92re a sweet Fergy.\'94\
\
Ferguson cried again. \'93I don\'92t want you happy the way you are. Why don\'92t\
you get married? You haven\'92t got another wife have you?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. Catherine laughed.\
\
\'93It\'92s nothing to laugh about,\'94 Ferguson said. \'93Plenty of them have other\
wives.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll be married, Fergy,\'94 Catherine said, \'93if it will please you.\'94\
\
\'93Not to please me. You should want to be married.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve been very busy.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I know. Busy making babies.\'94 I thought she was going to cry again\
but she went into bitterness instead. \'93I suppose you\'92ll go off with him\
now to-night?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Catherine. \'93If he wants me.\'94\
\
\'93What about me?\'94\
\
\'93Are you afraid to stay here alone?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I am.\'94\
\
\'93Then I\'92ll stay with you.\'94\
\
\'93No, go on with him. Go with him right away. I\'92m sick of seeing both of\
you.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92d better finish dinner.\'94\
\
\'93No. Go right away.\'94\
\
\'93Fergy, be reasonable.\'94\
\
\'93I say get out right away. Go away both of you.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go then,\'94 I said. I was sick of Fergy.\
\
\'93You do want to go. You see you want to leave me even to eat dinner\
alone. I\'92ve always wanted to go to the Italian lakes and this is how it\
is. Oh, Oh,\'94 she sobbed, then looked at Catherine and choked.\
\
\'93We\'92ll stay till after dinner,\'94 Catherine said. \'93And I\'92ll not leave you\
alone if you want me to stay. I won\'92t leave you alone, Fergy.\'94\
\
\'93No. No. I want you to go. I want you to go.\'94 She wiped her eyes. \'93I\'92m\
so unreasonable. Please don\'92t mind me.\'94\
\
The girl who served the meal had been upset by all the crying. Now as\
she brought in the next course she seemed relieved that things were\
better.\
\
\
\
That night at the hotel, in our room with the long empty hall outside\
and our shoes outside the door, a thick carpet on the floor of the room,\
outside the windows the rain falling and in the room light and pleasant\
and cheerful, then the light out and it exciting with smooth sheets and\
the bed comfortable, feeling that we had come home, feeling no longer\
alone, waking in the night to find the other one there, and not gone\
away; all other things were unreal. We slept when we were tired and if\
we woke the other one woke too so one was not alone. Often a man wishes\
to be alone and a girl wishes to be alone too and if they love each\
other they are jealous of that in each other, but I can truly say we\
never felt that. We could feel alone when we were together, alone\
against the others. It has only happened to me like that once. I have\
been alone while I was with many girls and that is the way that you can\
be most lonely. But we were never lonely and never afraid when we were\
together. I know that the night is not the same as the day: that all\
things are different, that the things of the night cannot be explained\
in the day, because they do not then exist, and the night can be a\
dreadful time for lonely people once their loneliness has started. But\
with Catherine there was almost no difference in the night except that\
it was an even better time. If people bring so much courage to this\
world the world has to kill them to break them, so of course it kills\
them. The world breaks every one and afterward many are strong at the\
broken places. But those that will not break it kills. It kills the very\
good and the very gentle and the very brave impartially. If you are none\
of these you can be sure it will kill you too but there will be no\
special hurry.\
\
\
\
I remember waking in the morning. Catherine was asleep and the sunlight\
was coming in through the window. The rain had stopped and I stepped out\
of bed and across the floor to the window. Down below were the gardens,\
bare now but beautifully regular, the gravel paths, the trees, the stone\
wall by the lake and the lake in the sunlight with the mountains beyond.\
I stood at the window looking out and when I turned away I saw Catherine\
was awake and watching me.\
\
\'93How are you, darling?\'94 she said. \'93Isn\'92t it a lovely day?\'94\
\
\'93How do you feel?\'94\
\
\'93I feel very well. We had a lovely night.\'94\
\
\'93Do you want breakfast?\'94\
\
She wanted breakfast. So did I and we had it in bed, the November\
sunlight coming in the window, and the breakfast tray across my lap.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you want the paper? You always wanted the paper in the hospital.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I don\'92t want the paper now.\'94\
\
\'93Was it so bad you don\'92t want even to read about it?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to read about it.\'94\
\
\'93I wish I had been with you so I would know about it too.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you about it if I ever get it straight in my head.\'94\
\
\'93But won\'92t they arrest you if they catch you out of uniform?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92ll probably shoot me.\'94\
\
\'93Then we\'92ll not stay here. We\'92ll get out of the country.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d thought something of that.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll get out. Darling, you shouldn\'92t take silly chances. Tell me how\
did you come from Mestre to Milan?\'94\
\
\'93I came on the train. I was in uniform then.\'94\
\
\'93Weren\'92t you in danger then?\'94\
\
\'93Not much. I had an old order of movement. I fixed the dates on it in\
Mestre.\'94\
\
\'93Darling, you\'92re liable to be arrested here any time. I won\'92t have it.\
It\'92s silly to do something like that. Where would we be if they took you\
off?\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s not think about it. I\'92m tired of thinking about it.\'94\
\
\'93What would you do if they came to arrest you?\'94\
\
\'93Shoot them.\'94\
\
\'93You see how silly you are, I won\'92t let you go out of the hotel until we\
leave here.\'94\
\
\'93Where are we going to go?\'94\
\
\'93Please don\'92t be that way, darling. We\'92ll go wherever you say. But\
please find some place to go right away.\'94\
\
\'93Switzerland is down the lake, we can go there.\'94\
\
\'93That will be lovely.\'94\
\
It was clouding over outside and the lake was darkening.\
\
\'93I wish we did not always have to live like criminals,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Darling, don\'92t be that way. You haven\'92t lived like a criminal very\
long. And we never live like criminals. We\'92re going to have a fine\
time.\'94\
\
\'93I feel like a criminal. I\'92ve deserted from the army.\'94\
\
\'93Darling, _please_ be sensible. It\'92s not deserting from the army. It\'92s\
only the Italian army.\'94\
\
I laughed. \'93You\'92re a fine girl. Let\'92s get back into bed. I feel fine in\
bed.\'94\
\
\
\
A little while later Catherine said, \'93You don\'92t feel like a criminal do\
you?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93Not when I\'92m with you.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re such a silly boy,\'94 she said. \'93But I\'92ll look after you. Isn\'92t it\
splendid, darling, that I don\'92t have any morning-sickness?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s grand.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t appreciate what a fine wife you have. But I don\'92t care. I\'92ll\
get you some place where they can\'92t arrest you and then we\'92ll have a\
lovely time.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go there right away.\'94\
\
\'93We will, darling. I\'92ll go any place any time you wish.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s not think about anything.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XXXV\
\
Catherine went along the lake to the little hotel to see Ferguson and I\
sat in the bar and read the papers. There were comfortable leather\
chairs in the bar and I sat in one of them and read until the barman\
came in. The army had not stood at the Tagliamento. They were falling\
back to the Piave. I remembered the Piave. The railroad crossed it near\
San Dona going up to the front. It was deep and slow there and quite\
narrow. Down below there were mosquito marshes and canals. There were\
some lovely villas. Once, before the war, going up to Cortina D\'92Ampezzo\
I had gone along it for several hours in the hills. Up there it looked\
like a trout stream, flowing swiftly with shallow stretches and pools\
under the shadow of the rocks. The road turned off from it at Cadore. I\
wondered how the army that was up there would come down. The barman came\
in.\
\
\'93Count Greffi was asking for you,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Who?\'94\
\
\'93Count Greffi. You remember the old man who was here when you were here\
before.\'94\
\
\'93Is he here?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, he\'92s here with his niece. I told him you were here. He wants you\
to play billiards.\'94\
\
\'93Where is he?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s taking a walk.\'94\
\
\'93How is he?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s younger than ever. He drank three champagne cocktails last night\
before dinner.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s his billiard game?\'94\
\
\'93Good. He beat me. When I told him you were here he was very pleased.\
There\'92s nobody here for him to play with.\'94\
\
Count Greffi was ninety-four years old. He had been a contemporary of\
Metternich and was an old man with white hair and mustache and beautiful\
manners. He had been in the diplomatic service of both Austria and Italy\
and his birthday parties were the great social event of Milan. He was\
living to be one hundred years old and played a smoothly fluent game of\
billiards that contrasted with his own ninety-four-year-old brittleness.\
I had met him when I had been at Stresa once before out of season and\
while we played billiards we drank champagne. I thought it was a\
splendid custom and he gave me fifteen points in a hundred and beat me.\
\
\'93Why didn\'92t you tell me he was here?\'94\
\
\'93I forgot it.\'94\
\
\'93Who else is here?\'94\
\
\'93No one you know. There are only six people altogether.\'94\
\
\'93What are you doing now?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing.\'94\
\
\'93Come on out fishing.\'94\
\
\'93I could come for an hour.\'94\
\
\'93Come on. Bring the trolling line.\'94\
\
The barman put on a coat and we went out. We went down and got a boat\
and I rowed while the barman sat in the stern and let out the line with\
a spinner and a heavy sinker on the end to troll for lake trout. We\
rowed along the shore, the barman holding the line in his hand and\
giving it occasional jerks forward. Stresa looked very deserted from the\
lake. There were the long rows of bare trees, the big hotels and the\
closed villas. I rowed across to Isola Bella and went close to the\
walls, where the water deepened sharply, and you saw the rock wall\
slanting down in the clear water, and then up and along to the\
fisherman\'92s island. The sun was under a cloud and the water was dark and\
smooth and very cold. We did not have a strike though we saw some\
circles on the water from rising fish.\
\
I rowed up opposite the fisherman\'92s island where there were boats drawn\
up and men were mending nets.\
\
\'93Should we get a drink?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
I brought the boat up to the stone pier and the barman pulled in the\
line, coiling it on the bottom of the boat and hooking the spinner on\
the edge of the gunwale. I stepped out and tied the boat. We went into a\
little caf\'e9, sat at a bare wooden table and ordered vermouth.\
\
\'93Are you tired from rowing?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll row back,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93I like to row.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe if you hold the line it will change the luck.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me how goes the war.\'94\
\
\'93Rotten.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t have to go. I\'92m too old, like Count Greffi.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe you\'92ll have to go yet.\'94\
\
\'93Next year they\'92ll call my class. But I won\'92t go.\'94\
\
\'93What will you do?\'94\
\
\'93Get out of the country. I wouldn\'92t go to war. I was at the war once in\
Abyssinia. Nix. Why do you go?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I was a fool.\'94\
\
\'93Have another vermouth?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
The barman rowed back. We trolled up the lake beyond Stresa and then\
down not far from shore. I held the taut line and felt the faint pulsing\
of the spinner revolving while I looked at the dark November water of\
the lake and the deserted shore. The barman rowed with long strokes and\
on the forward thrust of the boat the line throbbed. Once I had a\
strike: the line hardened suddenly and jerked back, I pulled and felt\
the live weight of the trout and then the line throbbed again. I had\
missed him.\
\
\'93Did he feel big?\'94\
\
\'93Pretty big.\'94\
\
\'93Once when I was out trolling alone I had the line in my teeth and one\
struck and nearly took my mouth out.\'94\
\
\'93The best way is to have it over your leg,\'94 I said. \'93Then you feel it\
and don\'92t lose your teeth.\'94\
\
I put my hand in the water. It was very cold. We were almost opposite\
the hotel now.\
\
\'93I have to go in,\'94 the barman said, \'93to be there for eleven o\'92clock.\
_L\'92heure du cocktail._\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
I pulled in the line and wrapped it on a stick notched at each end. The\
barman put the boat in a little slip in the stone wall and locked it\
with a chain and padlock.\
\
\'93Any time you want it,\'94 he said, \'93I\'92ll give you the key.\'94\
\
\'93Thanks.\'94\
\
We went up to the hotel and in to the bar. I did not want another drink\
so early in the morning so I went up to our room. The maid had just\
finished doing the room and Catherine was not back yet. I lay down on\
the bed and tried to keep from thinking.\
\
When Catherine came back it was all right again. Ferguson was\
downstairs, she said. She was coming to lunch.\
\
\'93I knew you wouldn\'92t mind,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, darling?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93I know. You haven\'92t anything to do. All you have is me and I go away.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s true.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry, darling. I know it must be a dreadful feeling to have\
nothing at all suddenly.\'94\
\
\'93My life used to be full of everything,\'94 I said. \'93Now if you aren\'92t with\
me I haven\'92t a thing in the world.\'94\
\
\'93But I\'92ll be with you. I was only gone for two hours. Isn\'92t there\
anything you can do?\'94\
\
\'93I went fishing with the barman.\'94\
\
\'93Wasn\'92t it fun?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t think about me when I\'92m not here.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the way I worked it at the front. But there was something to do\
then.\'94\
\
\'93Othello with his occupation gone,\'94 she teased.\
\
\'93Othello was a nigger,\'94 I said. \'93Besides, I\'92m not jealous. I\'92m just so\
in love with you that there isn\'92t anything else.\'94\
\
\'93Will you be a good boy and be nice to Ferguson?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m always nice to Ferguson unless she curses me.\'94\
\
\'93Be nice to her. Think how much we have and she hasn\'92t anything.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think she wants what we have.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t know much, darling, for such a wise boy.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be nice to her.\'94\
\
\'93I know you will. You\'92re so sweet.\'94\
\
\'93She won\'92t stay afterward, will she?\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92ll get rid of her.\'94\
\
\'93And then we\'92ll come up here.\'94\
\
\'93Of course. What do you think I want to do?\'94\
\
We went downstairs to have lunch with Ferguson. She was very impressed\
by the hotel and the splendor of the dining-room. We had a good lunch\
with a couple of bottles of white capri. Count Greffi came into the\
dining-room and bowed to us. His niece, who looked a little like my\
grandmother, was with him. I told Catherine and Ferguson about him and\
Ferguson was very impressed. The hotel was very big and grand and empty\
but the food was good, the wine was very pleasant and finally the wine\
made us all feel very well. Catherine had no need to feel any better.\
She was very happy. Ferguson became quite cheerful. I felt very well\
myself. After lunch Ferguson went back to her hotel. She was going to\
lie down for a while after lunch she said.\
\
Along late in the afternoon some one knocked on our door.\
\
\'93Who is it?\'94\
\
\'93The Count Greffi wishes to know if you will play billiards with him.\'94\
\
I looked at my watch; I had taken it off and it was under the pillow.\
\
\'93Do you have to go, darling?\'94 Catherine whispered.\
\
\'93I think I\'92d better.\'94 The watch was a quarter-past four o\'92clock. Out\
loud I said, \'93Tell the Count Greffi I will be in the billiard-room at\
five o\'92clock.\'94\
\
At a quarter to five I kissed Catherine good-by and went into the\
bathroom to dress. Knotting my tie and looking in the glass I looked\
strange to myself in the civilian clothes. I must remember to buy some\
more shirts and socks.\
\
\'93Will you be away a long time?\'94 Catherine asked. She looked lovely in\
the bed. \'93Would you hand me the brush?\'94\
\
I watched her brushing her hair, holding her head so the weight of her\
hair all came on one side. It was dark outside and the light over the\
head of the bed shone on her hair and on her neck and shoulders. I went\
over and kissed her and held her hand with the brush and her head sunk\
back on the pillow. I kissed her neck and shoulders. I felt faint with\
loving her so much.\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to go away.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want you to go away.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t go then.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Go. It\'92s only for a little while and then you\'92ll come back.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll have dinner up here.\'94\
\
\'93Hurry and come back.\'94\
\
I found the Count Greffi in the billiard-room. He was practising\
strokes, looking very fragile under the light that came down above the\
billiard table. On a card table a little way beyond the light was a\
silver icing-bucket with the necks and corks of two champagne bottles\
showing above the ice. The Count Greffi straightened up when I came\
toward the table and walked toward me. He put out his hand, \'93It is such\
a great pleasure that you are here. You were very kind to come to play\
with me.\'94\
\
\'93It was very nice of you to ask me.\'94\
\
\'93Are you quite well? They told me you were wounded on the Isonzo. I hope\
you are well again.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m very well. Have you been well?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I am always well. But I am getting old. I detect signs of age now.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t believe it.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Do you want to know one? It is easier for me to talk Italian. I\
discipline myself but I find when I am tired that it is so much easier\
to talk Italian. So I know I must be getting old.\'94\
\
\'93We could talk Italian. I am a little tired too.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, but when you are tired it will be easier for you to talk English.\'94\
\
\'93American.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. American. You will please talk American. It is a delightful\
language.\'94\
\
\'93I hardly ever see Americans.\'94\
\
\'93You must miss them. One misses one\'92s countrymen and especially one\'92s\
countrywomen. I know that experience. Should we play or are you too\
tired?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not really tired. I said that for a joke. What handicap will you\
give me?\'94\
\
\'93Have you been playing very much?\'94\
\
\'93None at all.\'94\
\
\'93You play very well. Ten points in a hundred?\'94\
\
\'93You flatter me.\'94\
\
\'93Fifteen?\'94\
\
\'93That would be fine but you will beat me.\'94\
\
\'93Should we play for a stake? You always wished to play for a stake.\'94\
\
\'93I think we\'92d better.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I will give you eighteen points and we will play for a franc\
a point.\'94\
\
He played a lovely game of billiards and with the handicap I was only\
four ahead at fifty. Count Greffi pushed a button on the wall to ring\
for the barman.\
\
\'93Open one bottle please,\'94 he said. Then to me, \'93We will take a little\
stimulant.\'94 The wine was icy cold and very dry and good.\
\
\'93Should we talk Italian? Would you mind very much? It is my great\
weakness now.\'94\
\
We went on playing, sipping the wine between shots, speaking in Italian,\
but talking little, concentrated on the game. Count Greffi made his one\
hundredth point and with the handicap I was only at ninety-four. He\
smiled and patted me on the shoulder.\
\
\'93Now we will drink the other bottle and you will tell me about the war.\'94\
He waited for me to sit down.\
\
\'93About anything else,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You don\'92t want to talk about it? Good. What have you been reading?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m afraid I am very dull.\'94\
\
\'93No. But you should read.\'94\
\
\'93What is there written in war-time?\'94\
\
\'93There is \'91Le Feu\'92 by a Frenchman, Barbusse. There is \'91Mr. Britling Sees\
Through It.\'92\'94\
\
\'93No, he doesn\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93He doesn\'92t see through it. Those books were at the hospital.\'94\
\
\'93Then you have been reading?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, but nothing any good.\'94\
\
\'93I thought \'91Mr. Britling\'92 a very good study of the English middle-class\
soul.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know about the soul.\'94\
\
\'93Poor boy. We none of us know about the soul. Are you _Croyant_?\'94\
\
\'93At night.\'94\
\
Count Greffi smiled and turned the glass with his fingers. \'93I had\
expected to become more devout as I grow older but somehow I haven\'92t,\'94\
he said. \'93It is a great pity.\'94\
\
\'93Would you like to live after death?\'94 I asked and instantly felt a fool\
to mention death. But he did not mind the word.\
\
\'93It would depend on the life. This life is very pleasant. I would like\
to live forever,\'94 he smiled. \'93I very nearly have.\'94\
\
We were sitting in the deep leather chairs, the champagne in the\
ice-bucket and our glasses on the table between us.\
\
\'93If you ever live to be as old as I am you will find many things\
strange.\'94\
\
\'93You never seem old.\'94\
\
\'93It is the body that is old. Sometimes I am afraid I will break off a\
finger as one breaks a stick of chalk. And the spirit is no older and\
not much wiser.\'94\
\
\'93You are wise.\'94\
\
\'93No, that is the great fallacy; the wisdom of old men. They do not grow\
wise. They grow careful.\'94\
\
\'93Perhaps that is wisdom.\'94\
\
\'93It is a very unattractive wisdom. What do you value most?\'94\
\
\'93Some one I love.\'94\
\
\'93With me it is the same. That is not wisdom. Do you value life?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93So do I. Because it is all I have. And to give birthday parties,\'94 he\
laughed. \'93You are probably wiser than I am. You do not give birthday\
parties.\'94\
\
We both drank the wine.\
\
\'93What do you think of the war really?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93I think it is stupid.\'94\
\
\'93Who will win it?\'94\
\
\'93Italy.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93They are a younger nation.\'94\
\
\'93Do younger nations always win wars?\'94\
\
\'93They are apt to for a time.\'94\
\
\'93Then what happens?\'94\
\
\'93They become older nations.\'94\
\
\'93You said you were not wise.\'94\
\
\'93Dear boy, that is not wisdom. That is cynicism.\'94\
\
\'93It sounds very wise to me.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not particularly. I could quote you the examples on the other\
side. But it is not bad. Have we finished the champagne?\'94\
\
\'93Almost.\'94\
\
\'93Should we drink some more? Then I must dress.\'94\
\
\'93Perhaps we\'92d better not now.\'94\
\
\'93You are sure you don\'92t want more?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94 He stood up.\
\
\'93I hope you will be very fortunate and very happy and very, very\
healthy.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you. And I hope you will live forever.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you. I have. And if you ever become devout pray for me if I am\
dead. I am asking several of my friends to do that. I had expected to\
become devout myself but it has not come.\'94 I thought he smiled sadly but\
I could not tell. He was so old and his face was very wrinkled, so that\
a smile used so many lines that all gradations were lost.\
\
\'93I might become very devout,\'94 I said. \'93Anyway, I will pray for you.\'94\
\
\'93I had always expected to become devout. All my family died very devout.\
But somehow it does not come.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s too early.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe it is too late. Perhaps I have outlived my religious feeling.\'94\
\
\'93My own comes only at night.\'94\
\
\'93Then too you are in love. Do not forget that is a religious feeling.\'94\
\
\'93You believe so?\'94\
\
\'93Of course.\'94 He took a step toward the table. \'93You were very kind to\
play.\'94\
\
\'93It was a great pleasure.\'94\
\
\'93We will walk upstairs together.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XXXVI\
\
That night there was a storm and I woke to hear the rain lashing the\
window-panes. It was coming in the open window. Some one had knocked on\
the door. I went to the door very softly, not to disturb Catherine, and\
opened it. The barman stood there. He wore his overcoat and carried his\
wet hat.\
\
\'93Can I speak to you, Tenente?\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a very serious matter.\'94\
\
I looked around. The room was dark. I saw the water on the floor from\
the window. \'93Come in,\'94 I said. I took him by the arm into the bathroom;\
locked the door and put on the light. I sat down on the edge of the\
bathtub.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, Emilio? Are you in trouble?\'94\
\
\'93No. You are, Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93Yes?\'94\
\
\'93They are going to arrest you in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93Yes?\'94\
\
\'93I came to tell you. I was out in the town and I heard them talking in a\
caf\'e9.\'94\
\
\'93I see.\'94\
\
He stood there, his coat wet, holding his wet hat and said nothing.\
\
\'93Why are they going to arrest me?\'94\
\
\'93For something about the war.\'94\
\
\'93Do you know what?\'94\
\
\'93No. But I know that they know you were here before as an officer and\
now you are here out of uniform. After this retreat they arrest\
everybody.\'94\
\
I thought a minute.\
\
\'93What time do they come to arrest me?\'94\
\
\'93In the morning. I don\'92t know the time.\'94\
\
\'93What do you say to do?\'94\
\
He put his hat in the washbowl. It was very wet and had been dripping on\
the floor.\
\
\'93If you have nothing to fear an arrest is nothing. But it is always bad\
to be arrested\'97especially now.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to be arrested.\'94\
\
\'93Then go to Switzerland.\'94\
\
\'93How?\'94\
\
\'93In my boat.\'94\
\
\'93There is a storm,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93The storm is over. It is rough but you will be all right.\'94\
\
\'93When should we go?\'94\
\
\'93Right away. They might come to arrest you early in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93What about our bags?\'94\
\
\'93Get them packed. Get your lady dressed. I will take care of them.\'94\
\
\'93Where will you be?\'94\
\
\'93I will wait here. I don\'92t want any one to see me outside in the hall.\'94\
\
I opened the door, closed it, and went into the bedroom. Catherine was\
awake.\
\
\'93What is it, darling?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right, Cat,\'94 I said. \'93Would you like to get dressed right away\
and go in a boat to Switzerland?\'94\
\
\'93Would you?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92d like to go back to bed.\'94\
\
\'93What is it about?\'94\
\
\'93The barman says they are going to arrest me in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93Is the barman crazy?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Then please hurry, darling, and get dressed so we can start.\'94 She sat\
up on the side of the bed. She was still sleepy. \'93Is that the barman in\
the bathroom?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Then I won\'92t wash. Please look the other way, darling, and I\'92ll be\
dressed in just a minute.\'94\
\
I saw her white back as she took off her nightgown and then I looked\
away because she wanted me to. She was beginning to be a little big with\
the child and she did not want me to see her. I dressed hearing the rain\
on the windows. I did not have much to put in my bag.\
\
\'93There\'92s plenty of room in my bag, Cat, if you need any.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m almost packed,\'94 she said. \'93Darling, I\'92m awfully stupid, but why is\
the barman in the bathroom?\'94\
\
\'93Sh\'97he\'92s waiting to take our bags down.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s awfully nice.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s an old friend,\'94 I said. \'93I nearly sent him some pipe-tobacco\
once.\'94\
\
I looked out the open window at the dark night. I could not see the\
lake, only the dark and the rain but the wind was quieter.\
\
\'93I\'92m ready, darling,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93All right.\'94 I went to the bathroom door. \'93Here are the bags, Emilio,\'94 I\
said. The barman took the two bags.\
\
\'93You\'92re very good to help us,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93That\'92s nothing, lady,\'94 the barman said. \'93I\'92m glad to help you just so I\
don\'92t get in trouble myself. Listen,\'94 he said to me. \'93I\'92ll take these\
out the servants\'92 stairs and to the boat. You just go out as though you\
were going for a walk.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lovely night for a walk,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93It\'92s a bad night all right.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m glad I\'92ve an umbrella,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
We walked down the hall and down the wide thickly carpeted stairs. At\
the foot of the stairs by the door the porter sat behind his desk.\
\
He looked surprised at seeing us.\
\
\'93You\'92re not going out, sir?\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93We\'92re going to see the storm along the lake.\'94\
\
\'93Haven\'92t you got an umbrella, sir?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93This coat sheds water.\'94\
\
He looked at it doubtfully. \'93I\'92ll get you an umbrella, sir,\'94 he said. He\
went away and came back with a big umbrella. \'93It is a little big, sir,\'94\
he said. I gave him a ten-lira note. \'93Oh you are too good, sir. Thank\
you very much,\'94 he said. He held the door open and we went out into the\
rain. He smiled at Catherine and she smiled at him. \'93Don\'92t stay out in\
the storm,\'94 he said. \'93You will get wet, sir and lady.\'94 He was only the\
second porter, and his English was still literally translated.\
\
\'93We\'92ll be back,\'94 I said. We walked down the path under the giant\
umbrella and out through the dark wet gardens to the road and across the\
road to the trellised pathway along the lake. The wind was blowing\
offshore now. It was a cold, wet November wind and I knew it was snowing\
in the mountains. We came along past the chained boats in the slips\
along the quay to where the barman\'92s boat should be. The water was dark\
against the stone. The barman stepped out from beside the row of trees.\
\
\'93The bags are in the boat,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93I want to pay you for the boat,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93How much money have you?\'94\
\
\'93Not so much.\'94\
\
\'93You send me the money later. That will be all right.\'94\
\
\'93How much?\'94\
\
\'93What you want.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me how much.\'94\
\
\'93If you get through send me five hundred francs. You won\'92t mind that if\
you get through.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Here are sandwiches.\'94 He handed me a package. \'93Everything there was in\
the bar. It\'92s all here. This is a bottle of brandy and a bottle of\
wine.\'94 I put them in my bag. \'93Let me pay you for those.\'94\
\
\'93All right, give me fifty lire.\'94\
\
I gave it to him. \'93The brandy is good,\'94 he said. \'93You don\'92t need to be\
afraid to give it to your lady. She better get in the boat.\'94 He held the\
boat, it rising and falling against the stone wall and I helped\
Catherine in. She sat in the stern and pulled her cape around her.\
\
\'93You know where to go?\'94\
\
\'93Up the lake.\'94\
\
\'93You know how far?\'94\
\
\'93Past Luino.\'94\
\
\'93Past Luino, Cannero, Cannobio, Tranzano. You aren\'92t in Switzerland\
until you come to Brissago. You have to pass Monte Tamara.\'94\
\
\'93What time is it?\'94 Catherine asked.\
\
\'93It\'92s only eleven o\'92clock,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93If you row all the time you ought to be there by seven o\'92clock in the\
morning.\'94\
\
\'93Is it that far?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s thirty-five kilometres.\'94\
\
\'93How should we go? In this rain we need a compass.\'94\
\
\'93No. Row to Isola Bella. Then on the other side of Isola Madre go with\
the wind. The wind will take you to Pallanza. You will see the lights.\
Then go up the shore.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe the wind will change.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 he said. \'93This wind will blow like this for three days. It comes\
straight down from the Mattarone. There is a can to bail with.\'94\
\
\'93Let me pay you something for the boat now.\'94\
\
\'93No, I\'92d rather take a chance. If you get through you pay me all you\
can.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think you\'92ll get drowned.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s good.\'94\
\
\'93Go with the wind up the lake.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94 I stepped in the boat.\
\
\'93Did you leave the money for the hotel?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. In an envelope in the room.\'94\
\
\'93All right. Good luck, Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93Good luck. We thank you many times.\'94\
\
\'93You won\'92t thank me if you get drowned.\'94\
\
\'93What does he say?\'94 Catherine asked.\
\
\'93He says good luck.\'94\
\
\'93Good luck,\'94 Catherine said. \'93Thank you very much.\'94\
\
\'93Are you ready?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
He bent down and shoved us off. I dug at the water with the oars, then\
waved one hand. The barman waved back deprecatingly. I saw the lights of\
the hotel and rowed out, rowing straight out until they were out of\
sight. There was quite a sea running but we were going with the wind.\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XXXVII\
\
I rowed in the dark keeping the wind in my face. The rain had stopped\
and only came occasionally in gusts. It was very dark, and the wind was\
cold. I could see Catherine in the stern but I could not see the water\
where the blades of the oars dipped. The oars were long and there were\
no leathers to keep them from slipping out. I pulled, raised, leaned\
forward, found the water, dipped and pulled, rowing as easily as I\
could. I did not feather the oars because the wind was with us. I knew\
my hands would blister and I wanted to delay it as long as I could. The\
boat was light and rowed easily. I pulled it along in the dark water. I\
could not see, and hoped we would soon come opposite Pallanza.\
\
We never saw Pallanza. The wind was blowing up the lake and we passed\
the point that hides Pallanza in the dark and never saw the lights. When\
we finally saw some lights much further up the lake and close to the\
shore it was Intra. But for a long time we did not see any lights, nor\
did we see the shore but rowed steadily in the dark riding with the\
waves. Sometimes I missed the water with the oars in the dark as a wave\
lifted the boat. It was quite rough; but I kept on rowing, until\
suddenly we were close ashore against a point of rock that rose beside\
us; the waves striking against it, rushing high up, then falling back. I\
pulled hard on the right oar and backed water with the other and we went\
out into the lake again; the point was out of sight and we were going on\
up the lake.\
\
\'93We\'92re across the lake,\'94 I said to Catherine.\
\
\'93Weren\'92t we going to see Pallanza?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve missed it.\'94\
\
\'93How are you, darling?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m fine.\'94\
\
\'93I could take the oars awhile.\'94\
\
\'93No, I\'92m fine.\'94\
\
\'93Poor Ferguson,\'94 Catherine said. \'93In the morning she\'92ll come to the\
hotel and find we\'92re gone.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not worrying so much about that,\'94 I said, \'93as about getting into\
the Swiss part of the lake before it\'92s daylight and the custom guards\
see us.\'94\
\
\'93Is it a long way?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s thirty some kilometres from here.\'94\
\
\
\
I rowed all night. Finally my hands were so sore I could hardly close\
them over the oars. We were nearly smashed up on the shore several\
times. I kept fairly close to the shore because I was afraid of getting\
lost on the lake and losing time. Sometimes we were so close we could\
see a row of trees and the road along the shore with the mountains\
behind. The rain stopped and the wind drove the clouds so that the moon\
shone through and looking back I could see the long dark point of\
Castagnola and the lake with white-caps and beyond, the moon on the high\
snow mountains. Then the clouds came over the moon again and the\
mountains and the lake were gone, but it was much lighter than it had\
been before and we could see the shore. I could see it too clearly and\
pulled out where they would not see the boat if there were custom guards\
along the Pallanza road. When the moon came out again we could see white\
villas on the shore on the slopes of the mountain and the white road\
where it showed through the trees. All the time I was rowing.\
\
The lake widened and across it on the shore at the foot of the mountains\
on the other side we saw a few lights that should be Luino. I saw a\
wedgelike gap between the mountains on the other shore and I thought\
that must be Luino. If it was we were making good time. I pulled in the\
oars and lay back on the seat. I was very, very tired of rowing. My arms\
and shoulders and back ached and my hands were sore.\
\
\'93I could hold the umbrella,\'94 Catherine said. \'93We could sail with that\
with the wind.\'94\
\
\'93Can you steer?\'94\
\
\'93I think so.\'94\
\
\'93You take this oar and hold it under your arm close to the side of the\
boat and steer and I\'92ll hold the umbrella.\'94 I went back to the stern and\
showed her how to hold the oar. I took the big umbrella the porter had\
given me and sat facing the bow and opened it. It opened with a clap. I\
held it on both sides, sitting astride the handle hooked over the seat.\
The wind was full in it and I felt the boat suck forward while I held as\
hard as I could to the two edges. It pulled hard. The boat was moving\
fast.\
\
\'93We\'92re going beautifully,\'94 Catherine said. All I could see was umbrella\
ribs. The umbrella strained and pulled and I felt us driving along with\
it. I braced my feet and held back on it, then suddenly, it buckled; I\
felt a rib snap on my forehead, I tried to grab the top that was bending\
with the wind and the whole thing buckled and went inside-out and I was\
astride the handle of an inside-out, ripped umbrella, where I had been\
holding a wind-filled pulling sail. I unhooked the handle from the seat,\
laid the umbrella in the bow and went back to Catherine for the oar. She\
was laughing. She took my hand and kept on laughing.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 I took the oar.\
\
\'93You looked so funny holding that thing.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose so.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be cross, darling. It was awfully funny. You looked about twenty\
feet broad and very affectionate holding the umbrella by the edges\'97\'94\
she choked.\
\
\'93I\'92ll row.\'94\
\
\'93Take a rest and a drink. It\'92s a grand night and we\'92ve come a long way.\'94\
\
\'93I have to keep the boat out of the trough of the waves.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll get you a drink. Then rest a little while, darling.\'94\
\
I held the oars up and we sailed with them. Catherine was opening the\
bag. She handed me the brandy bottle. I pulled the cork with my\
pocket-knife and took a long drink. It was smooth and hot and the heat\
went all through me and I felt warmed and cheerful. \'93It\'92s lovely\
brandy,\'94 I said. The moon was under again but I could see the shore.\
There seemed to be another point going out a long way ahead into the\
lake.\
\
\'93Are you warm enough, Cat?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m splendid. I\'92m a little stiff.\'94\
\
\'93Bail out that water and you can put your feet down.\'94\
\
Then I rowed and listened to the oarlocks and the dip and scrape of the\
bailing tin under the stern seat.\
\
\'93Would you give me the bailer?\'94 I said. \'93I want a drink.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s awfully dirty.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all right. I\'92ll rinse it.\'94\
\
I heard Catherine rinsing it over the side. Then she handed it to me\
dipped full of water. I was thirsty after the brandy and the water was\
icy cold, so cold it made my teeth ache. I looked toward the shore. We\
were closer to the long point. There were lights in the bay ahead.\
\
\'93Thanks,\'94 I said and handed back the tin pail.\
\
\'93You\'92re ever so welcome,\'94 Catherine said. \'93There\'92s much more if you want\
it.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you want to eat something?\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92ll be hungry in a little while. We\'92ll save it till then.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
What looked like a point ahead was a long high headland. I went further\
out in the lake to pass it. The lake was much narrower now. The moon was\
out again and the _guardia di Finanza_ could have seen our boat black on\
the water if they had been watching.\
\
\'93How are you, Cat?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93I\'92m all right. Where are we?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think we have more than about eight miles more.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a long way to row, you poor sweet. Aren\'92t you dead?\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92m all right. My hands are sore is all.\'94\
\
We went on up the lake. There was a break in the mountains on the right\
bank, a flattening-out with a low shore-line that I thought must be\
Cannobio. I stayed a long way out because it was from now on that we ran\
the most danger of meeting _guardia_. There was a high dome-capped\
mountain on the other shore a way ahead. I was tired. It was no great\
distance to row but when you were out of condition it had been a long\
way. I knew I had to pass that mountain and go up the lake at least five\
miles further before we would be in Swiss water. The moon was almost\
down now but before it went down the sky clouded over again and it was\
very dark. I stayed well out in the lake, rowing awhile, then resting\
and holding the oars so that the wind struck the blades.\
\
\'93Let me row awhile,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t think you ought to.\'94\
\
\'93Nonsense. It would be good for me. It would keep me from being too\
stiff.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think you should, Cat.\'94\
\
\'93Nonsense. Rowing in moderation is very good for the pregnant lady.\'94\
\
\'93All right, you row a little moderately. I\'92ll go back, then you come up.\
Hold on to both gunwales when you come up.\'94\
\
I sat in the stern with my coat on and the collar turned up and watched\
Catherine row. She rowed very well but the oars were too long and\
bothered her. I opened the bag and ate a couple of sandwiches and took a\
drink of the brandy. It made everything much better and I took another\
drink.\
\
\'93Tell me when you\'92re tired,\'94 I said. Then a little later, \'93watch out the\
oar doesn\'92t pop you in the tummy.\'94\
\
\'93If it did\'94\'97Catherine said between strokes\'97\'93life might be much\
simpler.\'94\
\
I took another drink of the brandy.\
\
\'93How are you going?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me when you want to stop.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
I took another drink of the brandy, then took hold of the two gunwales\
of the boat and moved forward.\
\
\'93No. I\'92m going beautifully.\'94\
\
\'93Go on back to the stern. I\'92ve had a grand rest.\'94\
\
For a while, with the brandy, I rowed easily and steadily. Then I began\
to catch crabs and soon I was just chopping along again with a thin\
brown taste of bile from having rowed too hard after the brandy.\
\
\'93Give me a drink of water, will you?\'94 I said.\
\
\'93That\'92s easy,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
Before daylight it started to drizzle. The wind was down or we were\
protected by mountains that bounded the curve the lake had made. When I\
knew daylight was coming I settled down and rowed hard. I did not know\
where we were and I wanted to get into the Swiss part of the lake. When\
it was beginning to be daylight we were quite close to the shore. I\
could see the rocky shore and the trees.\
\
\'93What\'92s that?\'94 Catherine said. I rested on the oars and listened. It was\
a motor boat chugging out on the lake. I pulled close up to the shore\
and lay quiet. The chugging came closer; then we saw the motor boat in\
the rain a little astern of us. There were four _guardia_ _di finanza_\
in the stern, their _alpini_ hats pulled down, their cape collars turned\
up and their carbines slung across their backs. They all looked sleepy\
so early in the morning. I could see the yellow on their hats and the\
yellow marks on their cape collars. The motor boat chugged on and out of\
sight in the rain.\
\
I pulled out into the lake. If we were that close to the border I did\
not want to be hailed by a sentry along the road. I stayed out where I\
could just see the shore and rowed on for three-quarters of an hour in\
the rain. We heard a motor boat once more but I kept quiet until the\
noise of the engine went away across the lake.\
\
\'93I think we\'92re in Switzerland, Cat,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Really?\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s no way to know until we see Swiss troops.\'94\
\
\'93Or the Swiss navy.\'94\
\
\'93The Swiss navy\'92s no joke for us. That last motor boat we heard was\
probably the Swiss navy.\'94\
\
\'93If we\'92re in Switzerland let\'92s have a big breakfast. They have wonderful\
rolls and butter and jam in Switzerland.\'94\
\
\
\
It was clear daylight now and a fine rain was falling. The wind was\
still blowing outside up the lake and we could see the tops of the\
white-caps going away from us and up the lake. I was sure we were in\
Switzerland now. There were many houses back in the trees from the shore\
and up the shore a way was a village with stone houses, some villas on\
the hills and a church. I had been looking at the road that skirted the\
shore for guards but did not see any. The road came quite close to the\
lake now and I saw a soldier coming out of a caf\'e9 on the road. He wore a\
gray-green uniform and a helmet like the Germans. He had a\
healthy-looking face and a little toothbrush mustache. He looked at us.\
\
\'93Wave to him,\'94 I said to Catherine. She waved and the soldier smiled\
embarrassedly and gave a wave of his hand. I eased up rowing. We were\
passing the waterfront of the village.\
\
\'93We must be well inside the border,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93We want to be sure, darling. We don\'92t want them to turn us back at the\
frontier.\'94\
\
\'93The frontier is a long way back. I think this is the customs town. I\'92m\
pretty sure it\'92s Brissago.\'94\
\
\'93Won\'92t there be Italians there? There are always both sides at a customs\
town.\'94\
\
\'93Not in war-time. I don\'92t think they let the Italians cross the\
frontier.\'94\
\
It was a nice-looking little town. There were many fishing boats along\
the quay and nets were spread on racks. There was a fine November rain\
falling but it looked cheerful and clean even with the rain.\
\
\'93Should we land then and have breakfast?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
I pulled hard on the left oar and came in close, then straightened out\
when we were close to the quay and brought the boat alongside. I pulled\
in the oars, took hold of an iron ring, stepped up on the wet stone and\
was in Switzerland. I tied the boat and held my hand down to Catherine.\
\
\'93Come on up, Cat. It\'92s a grand feeling.\'94\
\
\'93What about the bags?\'94\
\
\'93Leave them in the boat.\'94\
\
Catherine stepped up and we were in Switzerland together.\
\
\'93What a lovely country,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93Isn\'92t it grand?\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go and have breakfast!\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t it a grand country? I love the way it feels under my shoes.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m so stiff I can\'92t feel it very well. But it feels like a splendid\
country. Darling, do you realize we\'92re here and out of that bloody\
place?\'94\
\
\'93I do. I really do. I\'92ve never realized anything before.\'94\
\
\'93Look at the houses. Isn\'92t this a fine square? There\'92s a place we can\
get breakfast.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t the rain fine? They never had rain like this in Italy. It\'92s\
cheerful rain.\'94\
\
\'93And we\'92re here, darling! Do you realize we\'92re here?\'94\
\
We went inside the caf\'e9 and sat down at a clean wooden table. We were\
cockeyed excited. A splendid clean-looking woman with an apron came and\
asked us what we wanted.\
\
\'93Rolls and jam and coffee,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry, we haven\'92t any rolls in war-time.\'94\
\
\'93Bread then.\'94\
\
\'93I can make you some toast.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93I want some eggs fried too.\'94\
\
\'93How many eggs for the gentleman?\'94\
\
\'93Three.\'94\
\
\'93Take four, darling.\'94\
\
\'93Four eggs.\'94\
\
The woman went away. I kissed Catherine and held her hand very tight. We\
looked at each other and at the caf\'e9.\
\
\'93Darling, darling, isn\'92t it lovely?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s grand,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t mind there not being rolls,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I thought about\
them all night. But I don\'92t mind it. I don\'92t mind it at all.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose pretty soon they will arrest us.\'94\
\
\'93Never mind, darling. We\'92ll have breakfast first. You won\'92t mind being\
arrested after breakfast. And then there\'92s nothing they can do to us.\
We\'92re British and American citizens in good standing.\'94\
\
\'93You have a passport, haven\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Of course. Oh let\'92s not talk about it. Let\'92s be happy.\'94\
\
\'93I couldn\'92t be any happier,\'94 I said. A fat gray cat with a tail that\
lifted like a plume crossed the floor to our table and curved against my\
leg to purr each time she rubbed. I reached down and stroked her.\
Catherine smiled at me very happily. \'93Here comes the coffee,\'94 she said.\
\
\
\
They arrested us after breakfast. We took a little walk through the\
village then went down to the quay to get our bags. A soldier was\
standing guard over the boat.\
\
\'93Is this your boat?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Where do you come from?\'94\
\
\'93Up the lake.\'94\
\
\'93Then I have to ask you to come with me.\'94\
\
\'93How about the bags?\'94\
\
\'93You can carry the bags.\'94\
\
I carried the bags and Catherine walked beside me and the soldier walked\
along behind us to the old custom house. In the custom house a\
lieutenant, very thin and military, questioned us.\
\
\'93What nationality are you?\'94\
\
\'93American and British.\'94\
\
\'93Let me see your passports.\'94\
\
I gave him mine and Catherine got hers out of her handbag.\
\
He examined them for a long time.\
\
\'93Why do you enter Switzerland this way in a boat?\'94\
\
\'93I am a sportsman,\'94 I said. \'93Rowing is my great sport. I always row when\
I get a chance.\'94\
\
\'93Why do you come here?\'94\
\
\'93For the winter sport. We are tourists and we want to do the winter\
sport.\'94\
\
\'93This is no place for winter sport.\'94\
\
\'93We know it. We want to go where they have the winter sport.\'94\
\
\'93What have you been doing in Italy?\'94\
\
\'93I have been studying architecture. My cousin has been studying art.\'94\
\
\'93Why do you leave there?\'94\
\
\'93We want to do the winter sport. With the war going on you cannot study\
architecture.\'94\
\
\'93You will please stay where you are,\'94 the lieutenant said. He went back\
into the building with our passports.\
\
\'93You\'92re splendid, darling,\'94 Catherine said. \'93Keep on the same track. You\
want to do the winter sport.\'94\
\
\'93Do you know anything about art?\'94\
\
\'93Rubens,\'94 said Catherine.\
\
\'93Large and fat,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Titian,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93Titian-haired,\'94 I said. \'93How about Mantegna?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t ask hard ones,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I know him though\'97very bitter.\'94\
\
\'93Very bitter,\'94 I said. \'93Lots of nail holes.\'94\
\
\'93You see I\'92ll make you a fine wife,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I\'92ll be able to\
talk art with your customers.\'94\
\
\'93Here he comes,\'94 I said. The thin lieutenant came down the length of the\
custom house, holding our passports.\
\
\'93I will have to send you into Locarno,\'94 he said. \'93You can get a carriage\
and a soldier will go in with you.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93What about the boat?\'94\
\
\'93The boat is confiscated. What have you in those bags?\'94\
\
He went all through the two bags and held up the quarter-bottle of\
brandy. \'93Would you join me in a drink?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No thank you.\'94 He straightened up. \'93How much money have you?\'94\
\
\'93Twenty-five hundred lire.\'94\
\
He was favorably impressed. \'93How much has your cousin?\'94\
\
Catherine had a little over twelve hundred lire. The lieutenant was\
pleased. His attitude toward us became less haughty.\
\
\'93If you are going for winter sports,\'94 he said, \'93Wengen is the place. My\
father has a very fine hotel at Wengen. It is open all the time.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s splendid,\'94 I said. \'93Could you give me the name?\'94\
\
\'93I will write it on a card.\'94 He handed me the card very politely.\
\
\'93The soldier will take you in to Locarno. He will keep your passports. I\
regret this but it is necessary. I have good hopes they will give you a\
visa or a police permit at Locarno.\'94\
\
He handed the two passports to the soldier and carrying the bags we\
started into the village to order a carriage. \'93Hi,\'94 the lieutenant\
called to the soldier. He said something in a German dialect to him. The\
soldier slung his rifle on his back and picked up the bags.\
\
\'93It\'92s a great country,\'94 I said to Catherine.\
\
\'93It\'92s so practical.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you very much,\'94 I said to the lieutenant. He waved his hand.\
\
_\'93Service!_\'94 he said. We followed our guard into the village.\
\
We drove to Locarno in a carriage with the soldier sitting on the front\
seat with the driver. At Locarno we did not have a bad time. They\
questioned us but they were polite because we had passports and money. I\
do not think they believed a word of the story and I thought it was\
silly but it was like a law-court. You did not want something\
reasonable, you wanted something technical and then stuck to it without\
explanations. But we had passports and we would spend the money. So they\
gave us provisional visas. At any time this visa might be withdrawn. We\
were to report to the police wherever we went.\
\
Could we go wherever we wanted? Yes. Where did we want to go?\
\
\'93Where do you want to go, Cat?\'94\
\
\'93Montreux.\'94\
\
\'93It is a very nice place,\'94 the official said. \'93I think you will like\
that place.\'94\
\
\'93Here at Locarno is a very nice place,\'94 another official said. \'93I am\
sure you would like it here very much at Locarno. Locarno is a very\
attractive place.\'94\
\
\'93We would like some place where there is winter sport.\'94\
\
\'93There is no winter sport at Montreux.\'94\
\
\'93I beg your pardon,\'94 the other official said. \'93I come from Montreux.\
There is very certainly winter sport on the Montreux Oberland Bernois\
railway. It would be false for you to deny that.\'94\
\
\'93I do not deny it. I simply said there is no winter sport at Montreux.\'94\
\
\'93I question that,\'94 the other official said. \'93I question that statement.\'94\
\
\'93I hold to that statement.\'94\
\
\'93I question that statement. I myself have _luge-ed_ into the streets of\
Montreux. I have done it not once but several times. Luge-ing is\
certainly winter sport.\'94\
\
The other official turned to me.\
\
\'93Is luge-ing your idea of winter sport, sir? I tell you you would be\
very comfortable here in Locarno. You would find the climate healthy,\
you would find the environs attractive. You would like it very much.\'94\
\
\'93The gentleman has expressed a wish to go to Montreux.\'94\
\
\'93What is luge-ing?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93You see he has never even heard of luge-ing!\'94\
\
That meant a great deal to the second official. He was pleased by that.\
\
\'93Luge-ing,\'94 said the first official, \'93is tobogganing.\'94\
\
\'93I beg to differ,\'94 the other official shook his head. \'93I must differ\
again. The toboggan is very different from the luge. The toboggan is\
constructed in Canada of flat laths. The luge is a common sled with\
runners. Accuracy means something.\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t we toboggan?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Of course you could toboggan,\'94 the first official said. \'93You could\
toboggan very well. Excellent Canadian toboggans are sold in Montreux.\
Ochs Brothers sell toboggans. They import their own toboggans.\'94\
\
The second official turned away. \'93Tobogganing,\'94 he said, \'93requires a\
special _piste_. You could not toboggan into the streets of Montreux.\
Where are you stopping here?\'94\
\
\'93We don\'92t know,\'94 I said. \'93We just drove in from Brissago. The carriage\
is outside.\'94\
\
\'93You make no mistake in going to Montreux,\'94 the first official said.\
\'93You will find the climate delightful and beautiful. You will have no\
distance to go for winter sport.\'94\
\
\'93If you really want winter sport,\'94 the second official said, \'93you will\
go to the Engadine or to M\'fcrren. I must protest against your being\
advised to go to Montreux for the winter sport.\'94\
\
\'93At Les Avants above Montreux there is excellent winter sport of every\
sort.\'94 The champion of Montreux glared at his colleague.\
\
\'93Gentlemen,\'94 I said, \'93I am afraid we must go. My cousin is very tired.\
We will go tentatively to Montreux.\'94\
\
\'93I congratulate you,\'94 the first official shook my hand.\
\
\'93I believe that you will regret leaving Locarno,\'94 the second official\
said. \'93At any rate you will report to the police at Montreux.\'94\
\
\'93There will be no unpleasantness with the police,\'94 the first official\
assured me. \'93You will find all the inhabitants extremely courteous and\
friendly.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you both very much,\'94 I said. \'93We appreciate your advice very\
much.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by,\'94 Catherine said. \'93Thank you both very much.\'94\
\
They bowed us to the door, the champion of Locarno a little coldly. We\
went down the steps and into the carriage.\
\
\'93My God, darling,\'94 Catherine said. \'93Couldn\'92t we have gotten away any\
sooner?\'94 I gave the name of a hotel one of the officials had recommended\
to the driver. He picked up the reins.\
\
\'93You\'92ve forgotten the army,\'94 Catherine said. The soldier was standing by\
the carriage. I gave him a ten-lira note. \'93I have no Swiss money yet,\'94 I\
said. He thanked me, saluted and went off. The carriage started and we\
drove to the hotel.\
\
\'93How did you happen to pick out Montreux?\'94 I asked Catherine. \'93Do you\
really want to go there?\'94\
\
\'93It was the first place I could think of,\'94 she said. \'93It\'92s not a bad\
place. We can find some place up in the mountains.\'94\
\
\'93Are you sleepy?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m asleep right now.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll get a good sleep. Poor Cat, you had a long bad night.\'94\
\
\'93I had a lovely time,\'94 Catherine said. \'93Especially when you sailed with\
the umbrella.\'94\
\
\'93Can you realize we\'92re in Switzerland?\'94\
\
\'93No, I\'92m afraid I\'92ll wake up and it won\'92t be true.\'94\
\
\'93I am too.\'94\
\
\'93It is true, isn\'92t it, darling? I\'92m not just driving down to the\
_stazione_ in Milan to see you off.\'94\
\
\'93I hope not.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t say that. It frightens me. Maybe that\'92s where we\'92re going.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m so groggy I don\'92t know,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Let me see your hands.\'94\
\
I put them out. They were both blistered raw.\
\
\'93There\'92s no hole in my side,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t be sacrilegious.\'94\
\
I felt very tired and vague in the head. The exhilaration was all gone.\
The carriage was going along the street.\
\
\'93Poor hands,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t touch them,\'94 I said. \'93By God I don\'92t know where we are. Where are\
we going, driver?\'94 The driver stopped his horse.\
\
\'93To the Hotel Metropole. Don\'92t you want to go there?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s all right, Cat.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right, darling. Don\'92t be upset. We\'92ll get a good sleep and you\
won\'92t feel groggy to-morrow.\'94\
\
\'93I get pretty groggy,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s like a comic opera to-day. Maybe\
I\'92m hungry.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re just tired, darling. You\'92ll be fine.\'94 The carriage pulled up\
before the hotel. Some one came out to take our bags.\
\
\'93I feel all right,\'94 I said. We were down on the pavement going into the\
hotel.\
\
\'93I know you\'92ll be all right. You\'92re just tired. You\'92ve been up a long\
time.\'94\
\
\'93Anyhow we\'92re here.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, we\'92re really here.\'94\
\
We followed the boy with the bags into the hotel.\
\
\
\
\
                                 BOOK V\
\
\
\
\
                            CHAPTER XXXVIII\
\
That fall the snow came very late. We lived in a brown wooden house in\
the pine trees on the side of the mountain and at night there was frost\
so that there was thin ice over the water in the two pitchers on the\
dresser in the morning. Mrs. Guttingen came into the room early in the\
morning to shut the windows and started a fire in the tall porcelain\
stove. The pine wood crackled and sparked and then the fire roared in\
the stove and the second time Mrs. Guttingen came into the room she\
brought big chunks of wood for the fire and a pitcher of hot water. When\
the room was warm she brought in breakfast. Sitting up in bed eating\
breakfast we could see the lake and the mountains across the lake on the\
French side. There was snow on the tops of the mountains and the lake\
was a gray steel-blue.\
\
Outside, in front of the chalet a road went up the mountain. The wheel\
ruts and ridges were iron hard with the frost, and the road climbed\
steadily through the forest and up and around the mountain to where\
there were meadows, and barns and cabins in the meadows at the edge of\
the woods looking across the valley. The valley was deep and there was a\
stream at the bottom that flowed down into the lake and when the wind\
blew across the valley you could hear the stream in the rocks.\
\
Sometimes we went off the road and on a path through the pine forest.\
The floor of the forest was soft to walk on; the frost did not harden it\
as it did the road. But we did not mind the hardness of the road because\
we had nails in the soles and heels of our boots and the heel nails bit\
on the frozen ruts and with nailed boots it was good walking on the road\
and invigorating. But it was lovely walking in the woods.\
\
In front of the house where we lived the mountain went down steeply to\
the little plain along the lake and we sat on the porch of the house in\
the sun and saw the winding of the road down the mountain-side and the\
terraced vineyards on the side of the lower mountain, the vines all dead\
now for the winter and the fields divided by stone walls, and below the\
vineyards the houses of the town on the narrow plain along the lake\
shore. There was an island with two trees on the lake and the trees\
looked like the double sails of a fishing-boat. The mountains were sharp\
and steep on the other side of the lake and down at the end of the lake\
was the plain of the Rhone Valley flat between the two ranges of\
mountains; and up the valley where the mountains cut it off was the Dent\
du Midi. It was a high snowy mountain and it dominated the valley but it\
was so far away that it did not make a shadow.\
\
When the sun was bright we ate lunch on the porch but the rest of the\
time we ate upstairs in a small room with plain wooden walls and a big\
stove in the corner. We bought books and magazines in the town and a\
copy of \'93Hoyle\'94 and learned many two-handed card games. The small room\
with the stove was our living-room. There were two comfortable chairs\
and a table for books and magazines and we played cards on the\
dining-table when it was cleared away. Mr. and Mrs. Guttingen lived\
downstairs and we would hear them talking sometimes in the evening and\
they were very happy together too. He had been a headwaiter and she had\
worked as maid in the same hotel and they had saved their money to buy\
this place. They had a son who was studying to be a headwaiter. He was\
at a hotel in Zurich. Downstairs there was a parlor where they sold wine\
and beer, and sometimes in the evening we would hear carts stop outside\
on the road and men come up the steps to go in the parlor to drink wine.\
\
There was a box of wood in the hall outside the living-room and I kept\
up the fire from it. But we did not stay up very late. We went to bed in\
the dark in the big bedroom and when I was undressed I opened the\
windows and saw the night and the cold stars and the pine trees below\
the window and then got into bed as fast as I could. It was lovely in\
bed with the air so cold and clear and the night outside the window. We\
slept well and if I woke in the night I knew it was from only one cause\
and I would shift the feather bed over, very softly so that Catherine\
would not be wakened and then go back to sleep again, warm and with the\
new lightness of thin covers. The war seemed as far away as the football\
games of some one else\'92s college. But I knew from the papers that they\
were still fighting in the mountains because the snow would not come.\
\
\
\
Sometimes we walked down the mountain into Montreux. There was a path\
went down the mountain but it was steep and so usually we took the road\
and walked down on the wide hard road between fields and then below\
between the stone walls of the vineyards and on down between the houses\
of the villages along the way. There were three villages; Chernex,\
Fontanivent, and the other I forget. Then along the road we passed an\
old square-built stone ch\'e2teau on a ledge on the side of the\
mountain-side with the terraced fields of vines, each vine tied to a\
stick to hold it up, the vines dry and brown and the earth ready for the\
snow and the lake down below flat and gray as steel. The road went down\
a long grade below the ch\'e2teau and then turned to the right and went\
down very steeply and paved with cobbles, into Montreux.\
\
We did not know any one in Montreux. We walked along beside the lake and\
saw the swans and the many gulls and terns that flew up when you came\
close and screamed while they looked down at the water. Out on the lake\
there were flocks of grebes, small and dark, and leaving trails in the\
water when they swam. In the town we walked along the main street and\
looked in the windows of the shops. There were many big hotels that were\
closed but most of the shops were open and the people were very glad to\
see us. There was a fine coiffeur\'92s place where Catherine went to have\
her hair done. The woman who ran it was very cheerful and the only\
person we knew in Montreux. While Catherine was there I went up to a\
beer place and drank dark Munich beer and read the papers. I read the\
_Corriere Della Sera_ and the English and American papers from Paris.\
All the advertisements were blacked out, supposedly to prevent\
communication in that way with the enemy. The papers were bad reading.\
Everything was going very badly everywhere. I sat back in the corner\
with a heavy mug of dark beer and an opened glazed-paper package of\
pretzels and ate the pretzels for the salty flavor and the good way they\
made the beer taste and read about disaster. I thought Catherine would\
come by but she did not come, so I hung the papers back on the rack,\
paid for my beer and went up the street to look for her. The day was\
cold and dark and wintry and the stone of the houses looked cold.\
Catherine was still in the hair-dresser\'92s shop. The woman was waving her\
hair. I sat in the little booth and watched. It was exciting to watch\
and Catherine smiled and talked to me and my voice was a little thick\
from being excited. The tongs made a pleasant clicking sound and I could\
see Catherine in three mirrors and it was pleasant and warm in the\
booth. Then the woman put up Catherine\'92s hair, and Catherine looked in\
the mirror and changed it a little, taking out and putting in pins; then\
stood up. \'93I\'92m sorry to have taken such a long time.\'94\
\
\'93Monsieur was very interested. Were you not, monsieur?\'94 the woman\
smiled.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said.\
\
We went out and up the street. It was cold and wintry and the wind was\
blowing. \'93Oh, darling, I love you so,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t we have a fine time?\'94 Catherine said. \'93Look. Let\'92s go some place\
and have beer instead of tea. It\'92s very good for young Catherine. It\
keeps her small.\'94\
\
\'93Young Catherine,\'94 I said. \'93That loafer.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s been very good,\'94 Catherine said. \'93She makes very little trouble.\
The doctor says beer will be good for me and keep her small.\'94\
\
\'93If you keep her small enough and she\'92s a boy, maybe he will be a\
jockey.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose if we really have this child we ought to get married,\'94\
Catherine said. We were in the beer place at the corner table. It was\
getting dark outside. It was still early but the day was dark and the\
dusk was coming early.\
\
\'93Let\'92s get married now,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93No,\'94 Catherine said. \'93It\'92s too embarrassing now. I show too plainly. I\
won\'92t go before any one and be married in this state.\'94\
\
\'93I wish we\'92d gotten married.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose it would have been better. But when could we, darling?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93I know one thing. I\'92m not going to be married in this splendid matronly\
state.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re not matronly.\'94\
\
\'93Oh yes, I am, darling. The hairdresser asked me if this was our first.\
I lied and said no, we had two boys and two girls.\'94\
\
\'93When will we be married?\'94\
\
\'93Any time after I\'92m thin again. We want to have a splendid wedding with\
every one thinking what a handsome young couple.\'94\
\
\'93And you\'92re not worried?\'94\
\
\'93Darling, why should I be worried? The only time I ever felt badly was\
when I felt like a whore in Milan and that only lasted seven minutes and\
besides it was the room furnishings. Don\'92t I make you a good wife?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a lovely wife.\'94\
\
\'93Then don\'92t be too technical, darling. I\'92ll marry you as soon as I\'92m\
thin again.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Do you think I ought to drink another beer? The doctor said I was\
rather narrow in the hips and it\'92s all for the best if we keep young\
Catherine small.\'94\
\
\'93What else did he say?\'94 I was worried.\
\
\'93Nothing. I have a wonderful blood-pressure, darling. He admired my\
blood-pressure greatly.\'94\
\
\'93What did he say about you being too narrow in the hips?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing. Nothing at all. He said I shouldn\'92t ski.\'94\
\
\'93Quite right.\'94\
\
\'93He said it was too late to start if I\'92d never done it before. He said I\
could ski if I wouldn\'92t fall down.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s just a big-hearted joker.\'94\
\
\'93Really he was very nice. We\'92ll have him when the baby comes.\'94\
\
\'93Did you ask him if you ought to get married?\'94\
\
\'93No. I told him we\'92d been married four years. You see, darling, if I\
marry you I\'92ll be an American and any time we\'92re married under American\
law the child is legitimate.\'94\
\
\'93Where did you find that out?\'94\
\
\'93In the New York _World Almanac_ in the library.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a grand girl.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be very glad to be an American and we\'92ll go to America won\'92t we,\
darling? I want to see Niagara Falls.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a fine girl.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s something else I want to see but I can\'92t remember it.\'94\
\
\'93The stockyards?\'94\
\
\'93No. I can\'92t remember it.\'94\
\
\'93The Woolworth building?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93The Grand Canyon?\'94\
\
\'93No. But I\'92d like to see that.\'94\
\
\'93What was it?\'94\
\
\'93The Golden Gate! That\'92s what I want to see. Where is the Golden Gate?\'94\
\
\'93San Francisco.\'94\
\
\'93Then let\'92s go there. I want to see San Francisco anyway.\'94\
\
\'93All right. We\'92ll go there.\'94\
\
\'93Now let\'92s go up the mountain. Should we? Can we get the M. O. B.?\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s a train a little after five.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s get that.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I\'92ll drink one more beer first.\'94\
\
When we went out to go up the street and climb the stairs to the station\
it was very cold. A cold wind was coming down the Rhone valley. There\
were lights in the shop windows and we climbed the steep stone stairway\
to the upper street, then up another stairs to the station. The electric\
train was there waiting, all the lights on. There was a dial that showed\
when it left. The clock hands pointed to ten minutes after five. I\
looked at the station clock. It was five minutes after. As we got on\
board I saw the motorman and conductor coming out of the station wine\
shop. We sat down and opened the window. The train was electrically\
heated and stuffy but fresh cold air came in through the window.\
\
\'93Are you tired, Cat?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No. I feel splendid.\'94\
\
\'93It isn\'92t a long ride.\'94\
\
\'93I like the ride,\'94 she said. \'93Don\'92t worry about me, darling. I feel\
fine.\'94\
\
\
\
Snow did not come until three days before Christmas. We woke one morning\
and it was snowing. We stayed in bed with the fire roaring in the stove\
and watched the snow fall. Mrs. Guttingen took away the breakfast trays\
and put more wood in the stove. It was a big snow storm. She said it had\
started about midnight. I went to the window and looked out but could\
not see across the road. It was blowing and snowing wildly. I went back\
to bed and we lay and talked.\
\
\'93I wish I could ski,\'94 Catherine said. \'93It\'92s rotten not to be able to\
ski.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll get a bobsled and come down the road. That\'92s no worse for you\
than riding in a car.\'94\
\
\'93Won\'92t it be rough?\'94\
\
\'93We can see.\'94\
\
\'93I hope it won\'92t be too rough.\'94\
\
\'93After a while we\'92ll take a walk in the snow.\'94\
\
\'93Before lunch,\'94 Catherine said, \'93so we\'92ll have a good appetite.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m always hungry.\'94\
\
\'93So am I.\'94\
\
We went out in the snow but it was drifted so that we could not walk\
far. I went ahead and made a trail down to the station but when we\
reached there we had gone far enough. The snow was blowing so we could\
hardly see and we went into the little inn by the station and swept each\
other off with a broom and sat on a bench and had vermouths.\
\
\'93It is a big storm,\'94 the barmaid said.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93The snow is very late this year.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Could I eat a chocolate bar?\'94 Catherine asked. \'93Or is it too close to\
lunch? I\'92m always hungry.\'94\
\
\'93Go on and eat one,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll take one with filberts,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93They are very good,\'94 the girl said, \'93I like them the best.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll have another vermouth,\'94 I said.\
\
When we came out to start back up the road our track was filled in by\
the snow. There were only faint indentations where the holes had been.\
The snow blew in our faces so we could hardly see. We brushed off and\
went in to have lunch. Mr. Guttingen served the lunch.\
\
\'93To-morrow there will be skiing,\'94 he said. \'93Do you ski, Mr. Henry?\'94\
\
\'93No. But I want to learn.\'94\
\
\'93You will learn very easily. My boy will be here for Christmas and he\
will teach you.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s fine. When does he come?\'94\
\
\'93To-morrow night.\'94\
\
When we were sitting by the stove in the little room after lunch looking\
out the window at the snow coming down Catherine said, \'93Wouldn\'92t you\
like to go on a trip somewhere by yourself, darling, and be with men and\
ski?\'94\
\
\'93No. Why should I?\'94\
\
\'93I should think sometimes you would want to see other people besides\
me.\'94\
\
\'93Do you want to see other people?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Neither do I.\'94\
\
\'93I know. But you\'92re different. I\'92m having a child and that makes me\
contented not to do anything. I know I\'92m awfully stupid now and I talk\
too much and I think you ought to get away so you won\'92t be tired of me.\
\
\'93Do you want me to go away?\'94\
\
\'93No. I want you to stay.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s what I\'92m going to do.\'94\
\
\'93Come over here,\'94 she said. \'93I want to feel the bump on your head. It\'92s\
a big bump.\'94 She ran her finger over it. \'93Darling, would you like to\
grow a beard?\'94\
\
\'93Would you like me to?\'94\
\
\'93It might be fun. I\'92d like to see you with a beard.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I\'92ll grow one. I\'92ll start now this minute. It\'92s a good idea.\
It will give me something to do.\'94\
\
\'93Are you worried because you haven\'92t anything to do?\'94\
\
\'93No. I like it. I have a fine life. Don\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93I have a lovely life. But I was afraid because I\'92m big now that maybe I\
was a bore to you.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, Cat. You don\'92t know how crazy I am about you.\'94\
\
\'93This way?\'94\
\
\'93Just the way you are. I have a fine time. Don\'92t we have a good life?\'94\
\
\'93I do, but I thought maybe you were restless.\'94\
\
\'93No. Sometimes I wonder about the front and about people I know but I\
don\'92t worry. I don\'92t think about anything much.\'94\
\
\'93Who do you wonder about?\'94\
\
\'93About Rinaldi and the priest and lots of people I know. But I don\'92t\
think about them much. I don\'92t want to think about the war. I\'92m through\
with it.\'94\
\
\'93What are you thinking about now?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing.\'94\
\
\'93Yes you were. Tell me.\'94\
\
\'93I was wondering whether Rinaldi had the syphilis.\'94\
\
\'93Was that all?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Has he the syphilis?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m glad you haven\'92t. Did you ever have anything like that?\'94\
\
\'93I had gonorrhea.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to hear about it. Was it very painful, darling?\'94\
\
\'93Very.\'94\
\
\'93I wish I\'92d had it.\'94\
\
\'93No you don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93I do. I wish I\'92d had it to be like you. I wish I\'92d stayed with all your\
girls so I could make fun of them to you.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a pretty picture.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not a pretty picture you having gonorrhea.\'94\
\
\'93I know it. Look at it snow now.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d rather look at you. Darling, why don\'92t you let your hair grow?\'94\
\
\'93How grow?\'94\
\
\'93Just grow a little longer.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s long enough now.\'94\
\
\'93No, let it grow a little longer and I could cut mine and we\'92d be just\
alike only one of us blonde and one of us dark.\'94\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t let you cut yours.\'94\
\
\'93It would be fun. I\'92m tired of it. It\'92s an awful nuisance in the bed at\
night.\'94\
\
\'93I like it.\'94\
\
\'93Wouldn\'92t you like it short?\'94\
\
\'93I might. I like it the way it is.\'94\
\
\'93It might be nice short. Then we\'92d both be alike. Oh, darling, I want\
you so much I want to be you too.\'94\
\
\'93You are. We\'92re the same one.\'94\
\
\'93I know it. At night we are.\'94\
\
\'93The nights are grand.\'94\
\
\'93I want us to be all mixed up. I don\'92t want you to go away. I just said\
that. You go if you want to. But hurry right back. Why, darling, I don\'92t\
live at all when I\'92m not with you.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t ever go away,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m no good when you\'92re not there. I\
haven\'92t any life at all any more.\'94\
\
\'93I want you to have a life. I want you to have a fine life. But we\'92ll\
have it together, won\'92t we?\'94\
\
\'93And now do you want me to stop growing my beard or let it go on?\'94\
\
\'93Go on. Grow it. It will be exciting. Maybe it will be done for New\
Year\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93Now do you want to play chess?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d rather play with you.\'94\
\
\'93No. Let\'92s play chess.\'94\
\
\'93And afterward we\'92ll play?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
I got out the chess-board and arranged the pieces. It was still snowing\
hard outside.\
\
\
\
One time in the night I woke up and knew that Catherine was awake too.\
The moon was shining in the window and made shadows on the bed from the\
bars on the window-panes.\
\
\'93Are you awake, sweetheart?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Can\'92t you sleep?\'94\
\
\'93I just woke up thinking about how I was nearly crazy when I first met\
you. Do you remember?\'94\
\
\'93You were just a little crazy.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m never that way any more. I\'92m grand now. You say grand so sweetly.\
Say grand.\'94\
\
\'93Grand.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, you\'92re sweet. And I\'92m not crazy now. I\'92m just very, very, very\
happy.\'94\
\
\'93Go on to sleep,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93All right. Let\'92s go to sleep at exactly the same moment.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
But we did not. I was awake for quite a long time thinking about things\
and watching Catherine sleeping, the moonlight on her face. Then I went\
to sleep, too.\
\
\
\
\
                             CHAPTER XXXIX\
\
By the middle of January I had a beard and the winter had settled into\
bright cold days and hard cold nights. We could walk on the roads again.\
The snow was packed hard and smooth by the hay-sleds and wood-sledges\
and the logs that were hauled down the mountain. The snow lay over all\
the country, down almost to Montreux. The mountains on the other side of\
the lake were all white and the plain of the Rhone valley was covered.\
We took long walks on the other side of the mountain to the Bains de\
l\'92Alliaz. Catherine wore hobnailed boots and a cape and carried a stick\
with a sharp steel point. She did not look big with the cape and we\
would not walk too fast but stopped and sat on logs by the roadside to\
rest when she was tired.\
\
There was an inn in the trees at the Bains de l\'92Alliaz where the\
woodcutters stopped to drink, and we sat inside warmed by the stove and\
drank hot red wine with spices and lemon in it. They called it\
_gl\'fchwein_ and it was a good thing to warm you and to celebrate with.\
The inn was dark and smoky inside and afterward when you went out the\
cold air came sharply into your lungs and numbed the edge of your nose\
as you inhaled. We looked back at the inn with light coming from the\
windows and the woodcutters\'92 horses stamping and jerking their heads\
outside to keep warm. There was frost on the hairs of their muzzles and\
their breathing made plumes of frost in the air. Going up the road\
toward home the road was smooth and slippery for a while and the ice\
orange from the horses until the wood-hauling track turned off. Then the\
road was clean-packed snow and led through the woods, and twice coming\
home in the evening, we saw foxes.\
\
It was a fine country and every time that we went out it was fun.\
\
\'93You have a splendid beard now,\'94 Catherine said. \'93It looks just like the\
woodcutters\'92. Did you see the man with the tiny gold ear-rings?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a chamois hunter,\'94 I said. \'93They wear them because they say it\
makes them hear better.\'94\
\
\'93Really? I don\'92t believe it. I think they wear them to show they are\
chamois hunters. Are there chamois near here?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, beyond the Dent de Jaman.\'94\
\
\'93It was fun seeing the fox.\'94\
\
\'93When he sleeps he wraps that tail around him to keep warm.\'94\
\
\'93It must be a lovely feeling.\'94\
\
\'93I always wanted to have a tail like that. Wouldn\'92t it be fun if we had\
brushes like a fox?\'94\
\
\'93It might be very difficult dressing.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92d have clothes made, or live in a country where it wouldn\'92t make any\
difference.\'94\
\
\'93We live in a country where nothing makes any difference. Isn\'92t it grand\
how we never see any one? You don\'92t want to see people do you, darling?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Should we sit here just a minute? I\'92m a little bit tired.\'94\
\
We sat close together on the logs. Ahead the road went down through the\
forest.\
\
\'93She won\'92t come between us, will she? The little brat.\'94\
\
\'93No. We won\'92t let her.\'94\
\
\'93How are we for money?\'94\
\
\'93We have plenty. They honored the last sight draft.\'94\
\
\'93Won\'92t your family try and get hold of you now they know you\'92re in\
Switzerland?\'94\
\
\'93Probably. I\'92ll write them something.\'94\
\
\'93Haven\'92t you written them?\'94\
\
\'93No. Only the sight draft.\'94\
\
\'93Thank God I\'92m not your family.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll send them a cable.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you care anything about them?\'94\
\
\'93I did, but we quarrelled so much it wore itself out.\'94\
\
\'93I think I\'92d like them. I\'92d probably like them very much.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s not talk about them or I\'92ll start to worry about them.\'94 After a\
while I said, \'93Let\'92s go on if you\'92re rested.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m rested.\'94\
\
We went on down the road. It was dark now and the snow squeaked under\
our boots. The night was dry and cold and very clear.\
\
\'93I love your beard,\'94 Catherine said. \'93It\'92s a great success. It looks so\
stiff and fierce and it\'92s very soft and a great pleasure.\'94\
\
\'93Do you like it better than without?\'94\
\
\'93I think so. You know, darling, I\'92m not going to cut my hair now until\
after young Catherine\'92s born. I look too big and matronly now. But after\
she\'92s born and I\'92m thin again I\'92m going to cut it and then I\'92ll be a\
fine new and different girl for you. We\'92ll go together and get it cut,\
or I\'92ll go alone and come and surprise you.\'94\
\
I did not say anything.\
\
\'93You won\'92t say I can\'92t, will you?\'94\
\
\'93No. I think it would be exciting.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, you\'92re so sweet. And maybe I\'92d look lovely, darling, and be so thin\
and exciting to you and you\'92ll fall in love with me all over again.\'94\
\
\'93Hell,\'94 I said, \'93I love you enough now. What do you want to do? Ruin\
me?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I want to ruin you.\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 I said, \'93that\'92s what I want too.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                               CHAPTER XL\
\
We had a fine life. We lived through the months of January and February\
and the winter was very fine and we were very happy. There had been\
short thaws when the wind blew warm and the snow softened and the air\
felt like Spring, but always the clear hard cold had come again and the\
winter had returned. In March came the first break in the winter. In the\
night it started raining. It rained on all morning and turned the snow\
to slush and made the mountain-side dismal. There were clouds over the\
lake and over the valley. It was raining high up the mountain. Catherine\
wore heavy overshoes and I wore Mr. Guttingen\'92s rubber-boots and we\
walked to the station under an umbrella, through the slush and the\
running water that was washing the ice of the roads bare, to stop at the\
pub before lunch for a vermouth. Outside we could hear the rain.\
\
\'93Do you think we ought to move into town?\'94\
\
\'93What do you think?\'94 Catherine asked.\
\
\'93If the winter is over and the rain keeps up it won\'92t be fun up here.\
How long is it before young Catherine?\'94\
\
\'93About a month. Perhaps a little more.\'94\
\
\'93We might go down and stay in Montreux.\'94\
\
\'93Why don\'92t we go to Lausanne? That\'92s where the hospital is.\'94\
\
\'93All right. But I thought maybe that was too big a town.\'94\
\
\'93We can be as much alone in a bigger town and Lausanne might be nice.\'94\
\
\'93When should we go?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t care. Whenever you want, darling. I don\'92t want to leave here if\
you don\'92t want.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s see how the weather turns out.\'94\
\
It rained for three days. The snow was all gone now on the mountain-side\
below the station. The road was a torrent of muddy snow-water. It was\
too wet and slushy to go out. On the morning of the third day of rain we\
decided to go down into town.\
\
\'93That is all right, Mr. Henry,\'94 Guttingen said. \'93You do not have to give\
me any notice. I did not think you would want to stay now the bad\
weather is come.\'94\
\
\'93We have to be near the hospital anyway on account of Madame,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I understand,\'94 he said. \'93Will you come back some time and stay, with\
the little one?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, if you would have room.\'94\
\
\'93In the Spring when it is nice you could come and enjoy it. We could put\
the little one and the nurse in the big room that is closed now and you\
and Madame could have your same room looking out over the lake.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll write about coming,\'94 I said. We packed and left on the train that\
went down after lunch. Mr. and Mrs. Guttingen came down to the station\
with us and he hauled our baggage down on a sled through the slush. They\
stood beside the station in the rain waving good-by.\
\
\'93They were very sweet,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93They were fine to us.\'94\
\
We took the train to Lausanne from Montreux. Looking out the window\
toward where we had lived you could not see the mountains for the\
clouds. The train stopped in Vevey, then went on, passing the lake on\
one side and on the other the wet brown fields and the bare woods and\
the wet houses. We came into Lausanne and went into a medium-sized hotel\
to stay. It was still raining as we drove through the streets and into\
the carriage entrance of the hotel. The concierge with brass keys on his\
lapels, the elevator, the carpets on the floors, and the white washbowls\
with shining fixtures, the brass bed and the big comfortable bedroom all\
seemed very great luxury after the Guttingens. The windows of the room\
looked out on a wet garden with a wall topped by an iron fence. Across\
the street, which sloped steeply, was another hotel with a similar wall\
and garden. I looked out at the rain falling in the fountain of the\
garden.\
\
Catherine turned on all the lights and commenced unpacking. I ordered a\
whiskey and soda and lay on the bed and read the papers I had bought at\
the station. It was March, 1918, and the German offensive had started in\
France. I drank the whiskey and soda and read while Catherine unpacked\
and moved around the room.\
\
\'93You know what I have to get, darling,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93Baby clothes. There aren\'92t many people reach my time without baby\
things.\'94\
\
\'93You can buy them.\'94\
\
\'93I know. That\'92s what I\'92ll do to-morrow. I\'92ll find out what is\
necessary.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to know. You were a nurse.\'94\
\
\'93But so few of the soldiers had babies in the hospitals.\'94\
\
\'93I did.\'94\
\
She hit me with the pillow and spilled the whiskey and soda.\
\
\'93I\'92ll order you another,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m sorry I spilled it.\'94\
\
\'93There wasn\'92t much left. Come on over to the bed.\'94\
\
\'93No. I have to try and make this room look like something.\'94\
\
\'93Like what?\'94\
\
\'93Like our home.\'94\
\
\'93Hang out the Allied flags.\'94\
\
\'93Oh shut up.\'94\
\
\'93Say it again.\'94\
\
\'93Shut up.\'94\
\
\'93You say it so cautiously,\'94 I said. \'93As though you didn\'92t want to offend\
any one.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Then come over to the bed.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94 She came and sat on the bed. \'93I know I\'92m no fun for you,\
darling. I\'92m like a big flour-barrel.\'94\
\
\'93No you\'92re not. You\'92re beautiful and you\'92re sweet.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m just something very ungainly that you\'92ve married.\'94\
\
\'93No you\'92re not. You\'92re more beautiful all the time.\'94\
\
\'93But I will be thin again, darling.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re thin now.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve been drinking.\'94\
\
\'93Just whiskey and soda.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s another one coming,\'94 she said. \'93And then should we order dinner\
up here?\'94\
\
\'93That will be good.\'94\
\
\'93Then we won\'92t go out, will we? We\'92ll just stay in to-night.\'94\
\
\'93And play,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll drink some wine,\'94 Catherine said. \'93It won\'92t hurt me. Maybe we can\
get some of our old white capri.\'94\
\
\'93I know we can,\'94 I said. \'93They\'92ll have Italian wines at a hotel this\
size.\'94\
\
The waiter knocked at the door. He brought the whiskey in a glass with\
ice and beside the glass on a tray a small bottle of soda.\
\
\'93Thank you,\'94 I said. \'93Put it down there. Will you please have dinner for\
two brought up here and two bottles of dry white capri in ice.\'94\
\
\'93Do you wish to commence your dinner with soup?\'94\
\
\'93Do you want soup, Cat?\'94\
\
\'93Please.\'94\
\
\'93Bring soup for one.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you, sir.\'94 He went out and shut the door. I went back to the\
papers and the war in the papers and poured the soda slowly over the ice\
into the whiskey. I would have to tell them not to put ice in the\
whiskey. Let them bring the ice separately. That way you could tell how\
much whiskey there was and it would not suddenly be too thin from the\
soda. I would get a bottle of whiskey and have them bring ice and soda.\
That was the sensible way. Good whiskey was very pleasant. It was one of\
the pleasant parts of life.\
\
\'93What are you thinking, darling?\'94\
\
\'93About whiskey.\'94\
\
\'93What about whiskey?\'94\
\
\'93About how nice it is.\'94\
\
Catherine made a face. \'93All right,\'94 she said.\
\
\
\
We stayed at that hotel three weeks. It was not bad; the dining-room was\
usually empty and very often we ate in our room at night. We walked in\
the town and took the cogwheel railway down to Ouchy and walked beside\
the lake. The weather became quite warm and it was like Spring. We\
wished we were back in the mountains but the Spring weather lasted only\
a few days and then the cold rawness of the breaking-up of winter came\
again.\
\
Catherine bought the things she needed for the baby, up in the town. I\
went to a gymnasium in the arcade to box for exercise. I usually went up\
there in the morning while Catherine stayed late in bed. On the days of\
false Spring it was very nice, after boxing and taking a shower, to walk\
along the streets smelling the Spring in the air and stop at a caf\'e9 to\
sit and watch the people and read the paper and drink a vermouth; then\
go down to the hotel and have lunch with Catherine. The professor at the\
boxing gymnasium wore mustaches and was very precise and jerky and went\
all to pieces if you started after him. But it was pleasant in the gym.\
There was good air and light and I worked quite hard, skipping rope,\
shadow-boxing, doing abdominal exercises lying on the floor in a patch\
of sunlight that came through the open window, and occasionally scaring\
the professor when we boxed. I could not shadow-box in front of the\
narrow long mirror at first because it looked so strange to see a man\
with a beard boxing. But finally I just thought it was funny. I wanted\
to take off the beard as soon as I started boxing but Catherine did not\
want me to.\
\
Sometimes Catherine and I went for rides out in the country in a\
carriage. It was nice to ride when the days were pleasant and we found\
two good places where we could ride out to eat. Catherine could not walk\
very far now and I loved to ride out along the country roads with her.\
When there was a good day we had a splendid time and we never had a bad\
time. We knew the baby was very close now and it gave us both a feeling\
as though something were hurrying us and we could not lose any time\
together.\
\
\
\
\
                              CHAPTER XLI\
\
One morning I awoke about three o\'92clock hearing Catherine stirring in\
the bed.\
\
\'93Are you all right, Cat?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been having some pains, darling.\'94\
\
\'93Regularly?\'94\
\
\'93No, not very.\'94\
\
\'93If you have them at all regularly we\'92ll go to the hospital.\'94\
\
I was very sleepy and went back to sleep. A little while later I woke\
again.\
\
\'93Maybe you\'92d better call up the doctor,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I think maybe\
this is it.\'94\
\
I went to the phone and called the doctor. \'93How often are the pains\
coming?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93How often are they coming, Cat?\'94\
\
\'93I should think every quarter of an hour.\'94\
\
\'93You should go to the hospital then,\'94 the doctor said. \'93I will dress and\
go there right away myself.\'94\
\
I hung up and called the garage near the station to send up a taxi. No\
one answered the phone for a long time. Then I finally got a man who\
promised to send up a taxi at once. Catherine was dressing. Her bag was\
all packed with the things she would need at the hospital and the baby\
things. Outside in the hall I rang for the elevator. There was no\
answer. I went downstairs. There was no one downstairs except the\
night-watchman. I brought the elevator up myself, put Catherine\'92s bag in\
it, she stepped in and we went down. The night-watchman opened the door\
for us and we sat outside on the stone slabs beside the stairs down to\
the driveway and waited for the taxi. The night was clear and the stars\
were out. Catherine was very excited.\
\
\'93I\'92m so glad it\'92s started,\'94 she said. \'93Now in a little while it will be\
all over.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a good brave girl.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not afraid. I wish the taxi would come, though.\'94\
\
We heard it coming up the street and saw its headlights. It turned into\
the driveway and I helped Catherine in and the driver put the bag up in\
front.\
\
\'93Drive to the hospital,\'94 I said.\
\
We went out of the driveway and started up the hill.\
\
At the hospital we went in and I carried the bag. There was a woman at\
the desk who wrote down Catherine\'92s name, age, address, relatives and\
religion, in a book. She said she had no religion and the woman drew a\
line in the space after that word. She gave her name as Catherine Henry.\
\
\'93I will take you up to your room,\'94 she said. We went up in an elevator.\
The woman stopped it and we stepped out and followed her down a hall.\
Catherine held tight to my arm.\
\
\'93This is the room,\'94 the woman said. \'93Will you please undress and get\
into bed? Here is a nightgown for you to wear.\'94\
\
\'93I have a nightgown,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93It is better for you to wear this nightgown,\'94 the woman said.\
\
I went outside and sat on a chair in the hallway.\
\
\'93You can come in now,\'94 the woman said from the doorway. Catherine was\
lying in the narrow bed wearing a plain, square-cut nightgown that\
looked as though it were made of rough sheeting. She smiled at me.\
\
\'93I\'92m having fine pains now,\'94 she said. The woman was holding her wrist\
and timing the pains with a watch.\
\
\'93That was a big one,\'94 Catherine said. I saw it on her face.\
\
\'93Where\'92s the doctor?\'94 I asked the woman.\
\
\'93He\'92s lying down sleeping. He will be here when he is needed.\'94\
\
\'93I must do something for Madame, now,\'94 the nurse said. \'93Would you please\
step out again?\'94\
\
I went out into the hall. It was a bare hall with two windows and closed\
doors all down the corridor. It smelled of hospital. I sat on the chair\
and looked at the floor and prayed for Catherine.\
\
\'93You can come in,\'94 the nurse said. I went in.\
\
\'93Hello, darling,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93How is it?\'94\
\
\'93They are coming quite often now.\'94 Her face drew up. Then she smiled.\
\
\'93That was a real one. Do you want to put your hand on my back again,\
nurse?\'94\
\
\'93If it helps you,\'94 the nurse said.\
\
\'93You go away, darling,\'94 Catherine said. \'93Go out and get something to\
eat. I may do this for a long time the nurse says.\'94\
\
\'93The first labor is usually protracted,\'94 the nurse said.\
\
\'93Please go out and get something to eat,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I\'92m fine,\
really.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll stay awhile,\'94 I said.\
\
The pains came quite regularly, then slackened off. Catherine was very\
excited. When the pains were bad she called them good ones. When they\
started to fall off she was disappointed and ashamed.\
\
\'93You go out, darling,\'94 she said. \'93I think you are just making me\
self-conscious.\'94 Her face tied up. \'93There. That was better. I so want to\
be a good wife and have this child without any foolishness. Please go\
and get some breakfast, darling, and then come back. I won\'92t miss you.\
Nurse is splendid to me.\'94\
\
\'93You have plenty of time for breakfast,\'94 the nurse said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll go then. Good-by, sweet.\'94\
\
\'93Good-by,\'94 Catherine said, \'93and have a fine breakfast for me too.\'94\
\
\'93Where can I get breakfast?\'94 I asked the nurse.\
\
\'93There\'92s a caf\'e9 down the street at the square,\'94 she said. \'93It should be\
open now.\'94\
\
Outside it was getting light. I walked down the empty street to the\
caf\'e9. There was a light in the window. I went in and stood at the zinc\
bar and an old man served me a glass of white wine and a brioche. The\
brioche was yesterday\'92s. I dipped it in the wine and then drank a glass\
of coffee.\
\
\'93What do you do at this hour?\'94 the old man asked.\
\
\'93My wife is in labor at the hospital.\'94\
\
\'93So. I wish you good luck.\'94\
\
\'93Give me another glass of wine.\'94\
\
He poured it from the bottle slopping it over a little so some ran down\
on the zinc. I drank this glass, paid and went out. Outside along the\
street were the refuse cans from the houses waiting for the collector. A\
dog was nosing at one of the cans.\
\
\'93What do you want?\'94 I asked and looked in the can to see if there was\
anything I could pull out for him; there was nothing on top but\
coffee-grounds, dust and some dead flowers.\
\
\'93There isn\'92t anything, dog,\'94 I said. The dog crossed the street. I went\
up the stairs in the hospital to the floor Catherine was on and down the\
hall to her room. I knocked on the door. There was no answer. I opened\
the door; the room was empty, except for Catherine\'92s bag on a chair and\
her dressing-gown hanging on a hook on the wall. I went out and down the\
hall, looking for somebody. I found a nurse.\
\
\'93Where is Madame Henry?\'94\
\
\'93A lady has just gone to the delivery room.\'94\
\
\'93Where is it?\'94\
\
\'93I will show you.\'94\
\
She took me down to the end of the hall. The door of the room was partly\
open. I could see Catherine lying on a table, covered by a sheet. The\
nurse was on one side and the doctor stood on the other side of the\
table beside some cylinders. The doctor held a rubber mask attached to a\
tube in one hand.\
\
\'93I will give you a gown and you can go in,\'94 the nurse said. \'93Come in\
here, please.\'94\
\
She put a white gown on me and pinned it at the neck in back with a\
safety pin.\
\
\'93Now you can go in,\'94 she said. I went into the room.\
\
\'93Hello, darling,\'94 Catherine said in a strained voice. \'93I\'92m not doing\
much.\'94\
\
\'93You are Mr. Henry?\'94 the doctor asked.\
\
\'93Yes. How is everything going, doctor?\'94\
\
\'93Things are going very well,\'94 the doctor said. \'93We came in here where it\
is easy to give gas for the pains.\'94\
\
\'93I want it now,\'94 Catherine said. The doctor placed the rubber mask over\
her face and turned a dial and I watched Catherine breathing deeply and\
rapidly. Then she pushed the mask away. The doctor shut off the petcock.\
\
\'93That wasn\'92t a very big one. I had a very big one a while ago. The\
doctor made me go clear out, didn\'92t you, doctor?\'94 Her voice was strange.\
It rose on the word doctor.\
\
The doctor smiled.\
\
\'93I want it again,\'94 Catherine said. She held the rubber tight to her face\
and breathed fast. I heard her moaning a little. Then she pulled the\
mask away and smiled.\
\
\'93That was a big one,\'94 she said. \'93That was a very big one. Don\'92t you\
worry, darling. You go away. Go have another breakfast.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll stay,\'94 I said.\
\
\
\
We had gone to the hospital about three o\'92clock in the morning. At noon\
Catherine was still in the delivery room. The pains had slackened again.\
She looked very tired and worn now but she was still cheerful.\
\
\'93I\'92m not any good, darling,\'94 she said. \'93I\'92m so sorry. I thought I would\
do it very easily. Now\'97there\'92s one\'97\'94 she reached out her hand for the\
mask and held it over her face. The doctor moved the dial and watched\
her. In a little while it was over.\
\
\'93It wasn\'92t much,\'94 Catherine said. She smiled. \'93I\'92m a fool about the gas.\
It\'92s wonderful.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll get some for the home,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93_There one comes_,\'94 Catherine said quickly. The doctor turned the dial\
and looked at his watch.\
\
\'93What is the interval now?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93About a minute.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you want lunch?\'94\
\
\'93I will have something pretty soon,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93You must have something to eat, doctor,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I\'92m so sorry\
I go on so long. Couldn\'92t my husband give me the gas?\'94\
\
\'93If you wish,\'94 the doctor said. \'93You turn it to the numeral two.\'94\
\
\'93I see,\'94 I said. There was a marker on a dial that turned with a handle.\
\
\'93_I want it now_,\'94 Catherine said. She held the mask tight to her face.\
I turned the dial to number two and when Catherine put down the mask I\
turned it off. It was very good of the doctor to let me do something.\
\
\'93Did you do it, darling?\'94 Catherine asked. She stroked my wrist.\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re so lovely.\'94 She was a little drunk from the gas.\
\
\'93I will eat from a tray in the next room,\'94 the doctor said. \'93You can\
call me any moment.\'94 While the time passed I watched him eat, then,\
after a while, I saw that he was lying down and smoking a cigarette.\
Catherine was getting very tired.\
\
\'93Do you think I\'92ll ever have this baby?\'94 she asked.\
\
\'93Yes, of course you will.\'94\
\
\'93I try as hard as I can. I push down but it goes away. _There it comes.\
Give it to me._\'94\
\
At two o\'92clock I went out and had lunch. There were a few men in the\
caf\'e9 sitting with coffee and glasses of kirsch or marc on the tables. I\
sat down at a table. \'93Can I eat?\'94 I asked the waiter.\
\
\'93It is past time for lunch.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t there anything for all hours?\'94\
\
\'93You can have _choucroute_.\'94\
\
\'93Give me _choucroute_ and beer.\'94\
\
\'93A demi or a bock?\'94\
\
\'93A light demi.\'94\
\
The waiter brought a dish of sauerkraut with a slice of ham over the top\
and a sausage buried in the hot wine-soaked cabbage. I ate it and drank\
the beer. I was very hungry. I watched the people at the tables in the\
caf\'e9. At one table they were playing cards. Two men at the table next me\
were talking and smoking. The caf\'e9 was full of smoke. The zinc bar,\
where I had breakfasted, had three people behind it now; the old man, a\
plump woman in a black dress who sat behind a counter and kept track of\
everything served to the tables, and a boy in an apron. I wondered how\
many children the woman had and what it had been like.\
\
When I was through with the _choucroute_ I went back to the hospital.\
The street was all clean now. There were no refuse cans out. The day was\
cloudy but the sun was trying to come through. I rode upstairs in the\
elevator, stepped out and went down the hall to Catherine\'92s room, where\
I had left my white gown. I put it on and pinned it in back at the neck.\
I looked in the glass and saw myself looking like a fake doctor with a\
beard. I went down the hall to the delivery room. The door was closed\
and I knocked. No one answered so I turned the handle and went in. The\
doctor sat by Catherine. The nurse was doing something at the other end\
of the room.\
\
\'93Here is your husband,\'94 the doctor said.\
\
\'93Oh, darling, I have the most wonderful doctor,\'94 Catherine said in a\
very strange voice. \'93He\'92s been telling me the most wonderful story and\
when the pain came too badly he put me all the way out. He\'92s wonderful.\
You\'92re wonderful, doctor.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re drunk,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I know it,\'94 Catherine said. \'93But you shouldn\'92t say it.\'94 Then \'93_Give it\
to me. Give it to me._\'94 She clutched hold of the mask and breathed short\
and deep, pantingly, making the respirator click. Then she gave a long\
sigh and the doctor reached with his left hand and lifted away the mask.\
\
\'93That was a very big one,\'94 Catherine said. Her voice was very strange.\
\'93I\'92m not going to die now, darling. I\'92m past where I was going to die.\
Aren\'92t you glad?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you get in that place again.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t. I\'92m not afraid of it though. I won\'92t die, darling.\'94\
\
\'93You will not do any such foolishness,\'94 the doctor said. \'93You would not\
die and leave your husband.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, no. I won\'92t die. I wouldn\'92t die. It\'92s silly to die. There it comes.\
_Give it to me._\'94\
\
After a while the doctor said, \'93You will go out, Mr. Henry, for a few\
moments and I will make an examination.\'94\
\
\'93He wants to see how I am doing,\'94 Catherine said. \'93You can come back\
afterward, darling, can\'92t he, doctor?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said the doctor. \'93I will send word when he can come back.\'94\
\
I went out the door and down the hall to the room where Catherine was to\
be after the baby came. I sat in a chair there and looked at the room. I\
had the paper in my coat that I had bought when I went out for lunch and\
I read it. It was beginning to be dark outside and I turned the light on\
to read. After a while I stopped reading and turned off the light and\
watched it get dark outside. I wondered why the doctor did not send for\
me. Maybe it was better I was away. He probably wanted me away for a\
while. I looked at my watch. If he did not send for me in ten minutes I\
would go down anyway.\
\
Poor, poor dear Cat. And this was the price you paid for sleeping\
together. This was the end of the trap. This was what people got for\
loving each other. Thank God for gas, anyway. What must it have been\
like before there were an\'e6sthetics? Once it started, they were in the\
mill-race. Catherine had a good time in the time of pregnancy. It wasn\'92t\
bad. She was hardly ever sick. She was not awfully uncomfortable until\
toward the last. So now they got her in the end. You never got away with\
anything. Get away hell! It would have been the same if we had been\
married fifty times. And what if she should die? She won\'92t die. People\
don\'92t die in childbirth nowadays. That was what all husbands thought.\
Yes, but what if she should die? She won\'92t die. She\'92s just having a bad\
time. The initial labor is usually protracted. She\'92s only having a bad\
time. Afterward we\'92d say what a bad time and Catherine would say it\
wasn\'92t really so bad. But what if she should die? She can\'92t die. Yes,\
but what if she should die? She can\'92t, I tell you. Don\'92t be a fool. It\'92s\
just a bad time. It\'92s just nature giving her hell. It\'92s only the first\
labor, which is almost always protracted. Yes, but what if she should\
die? She can\'92t die. Why would she die? What reason is there for her to\
die? There\'92s just a child that has to be born, the by-product of good\
nights in Milan. It makes trouble and is born and then you look after it\
and get fond of it maybe. But what if she should die? She won\'92t die. But\
what if she should die? She won\'92t. She\'92s all right. But what if she\
should die? She can\'92t die. But what if she should die? Hey, what about\
that? What if she should die?\
\
The doctor came into the room.\
\
\'93How does it go, doctor?\'94\
\
\'93It doesn\'92t go,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93What do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93Just that. I made an examination\'97\'94 He detailed the result of the\
examination. \'93Since then I\'92ve waited to see. But it doesn\'92t go.\'94\
\
\'93What do you advise?\'94\
\
\'93There are two things. Either a high forceps delivery which can tear and\
be quite dangerous besides being possibly bad for the child, and a\
C\'e6sarean.\'94\
\
\'93What is the danger of a C\'e6sarean?\'94 What if she should die!\
\
\'93It should be no greater than the danger of an ordinary delivery.\'94\
\
\'93Would you do it yourself?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I would need possibly an hour to get things ready and to get the\
people I would need. Perhaps a little less.\'94\
\
\'93What do you think?\'94\
\
\'93I would advise a C\'e6sarean operation. If it were my wife I would do a\
C\'e6sarean.\'94\
\
\'93What are the after effects?\'94\
\
\'93There are none. There is only the scar.\'94\
\
\'93What about infection?\'94\
\
\'93The danger is not so great as in a high forceps delivery.\'94\
\
\'93What if you just went on and did nothing?\'94\
\
\'93You would have to do something eventually. Mrs. Henry is already losing\
much of her strength. The sooner we operate now the safer.\'94\
\
\'93Operate as soon as you can,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I will go and give the instructions.\'94\
\
I went into the delivery room. The nurse was with Catherine who lay on\
the table, big under the sheet, looking very pale and tired.\
\
\'93Did you tell him he could do it?\'94 she asked.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t that grand. Now it will be all over in an hour. I\'92m almost done,\
darling. I\'92m going all to pieces. _Please give me that._ It doesn\'92t\
work. _Oh, it doesn\'92t work!_\'94\
\
\'93Breathe deeply.\'94\
\
\'93I am. Oh, it doesn\'92t work any more. It doesn\'92t work!\'94\
\
\'93Get another cylinder,\'94 I said to the nurse.\
\
\'93That is a new cylinder.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m just a fool, darling,\'94 Catherine said. \'93But it doesn\'92t work any\
more.\'94 She began to cry. \'93Oh, I wanted so to have this baby and not make\
trouble, and now I\'92m all done and all gone to pieces and it doesn\'92t\
work. Oh, darling, it doesn\'92t work at all. I don\'92t care if I die if it\
will only stop. Oh, please, darling, please make it stop. _There it\
comes. Oh Oh Oh!_\'94 She breathed sobbingly in the mask. \'93It doesn\'92t work.\
It doesn\'92t work. It doesn\'92t work. Don\'92t mind me, darling. Please don\'92t\
cry. Don\'92t mind me. I\'92m just gone all to pieces. You poor sweet. I love\
you so and I\'92ll be good again. I\'92ll be good this time. _Can\'92t they give\
me something?_ If they could only give me something.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll make it work. I\'92ll turn it all the way.\'94\
\
\'93Give it to me now.\'94\
\
I turned the dial all the way and as she breathed hard and deep her hand\
relaxed on the mask. I shut off the gas and lifted the mask. She came\
back from a long way away.\
\
\'93That was lovely, darling. Oh, you\'92re so good to me.\
\
\'93You be brave, because I can\'92t do that all the time. It might kill you.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not brave any more, darling. I\'92m all broken. They\'92ve broken me. I\
know it now.\'94\
\
\'93Everybody is that way.\'94\
\
\'93But it\'92s awful. They just keep it up till they break you.\'94\
\
\'93In an hour it will be over.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t that lovely? Darling, I won\'92t die, will I?\'94\
\
\'93No. I promise you won\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Because I don\'92t want to die and leave you, but I get so tired of it and\
I feel I\'92m going to die.\'94\
\
\'93Nonsense. Everybody feels that.\'94\
\
\'93Sometimes I know I\'92m going to die.\'94\
\
\'93You won\'92t. You can\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93But what if I should?\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t let you.\'94\
\
\'93Give it to me quick. _Give it to me!_\'94\
\
Then afterward, \'93I won\'92t die. I won\'92t let myself die.\'94\
\
\'93Of course you won\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll stay with me?\'94\
\
\'93Not to watch it.\'94\
\
\'93No, just to be there.\'94\
\
\'93Sure. I\'92ll be there all the time.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re so good to me. There, give it to me. Give me some more. _It\'92s\
not working!_\'94\
\
I turned the dial to three and then four. I wished the doctor would come\
back. I was afraid of the numbers above two.\
\
\
\
Finally a new doctor came in with two nurses and they lifted Catherine\
onto a wheeled stretcher and we started down the hall. The stretcher\
went rapidly down the hall and into the elevator where every one had to\
crowd against the wall to make room; then up, then an open door and out\
of the elevator and down the hall on rubber wheels to the operating\
room. I did not recognize the doctor with his cap and mask on. There was\
another doctor and more nurses.\
\
\'93_They\'92ve got to give me something_,\'94 Catherine said. \'93_They\'92ve got to\
give me something._ Oh please, doctor, give me enough to do some good!\'94\
\
One of the doctors put a mask over her face and I looked through the\
door and saw the bright small amphitheatre of the operating room.\
\
\'93You can go in the other door and sit up there,\'94 a nurse said to me.\
There were benches behind a rail that looked down on the white table and\
the lights. I looked at Catherine. The mask was over her face and she\
was quiet now. They wheeled the stretcher forward. I turned away and\
walked down the hall. Two nurses were hurrying toward the entrance to\
the gallery.\
\
\'93It\'92s a C\'e6sarean,\'94 one said. \'93They\'92re going to do a C\'e6sarean.\'94\
\
The other one laughed, \'93We\'92re just in time. Aren\'92t we lucky?\'94 They went\
in the door that led to the gallery.\
\
Another nurse came along. She was hurrying too.\
\
\'93You go right in there. Go right in,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93I\'92m staying outside.\'94\
\
She hurried in. I walked up and down the hall. I was afraid to go in. I\
looked out the window. It was dark but in the light from the window I\
could see it was raining. I went into a room at the far end of the hall\
and looked at the labels on bottles in a glass case. Then I came out and\
stood in the empty hall and watched the door of the operating room.\
\
A doctor came out followed by a nurse. He held something in his two\
hands that looked like a freshly skinned rabbit and hurried across the\
corridor with it and in through another door. I went down to the door he\
had gone into and found them in the room doing things to a new-born\
child. The doctor held him up for me to see. He held him by the heels\
and slapped him.\
\
\'93Is he all right?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s magnificent. He\'92ll weigh five kilos.\'94\
\
I had no feeling for him. He did not seem to have anything to do with\
me. I felt no feeling of fatherhood.\
\
\'93Aren\'92t you proud of your son?\'94 the nurse asked. They were washing him\
and wrapping him in something. I saw the little dark face and dark hand,\
but I did not see him move or hear him cry. The doctor was doing\
something to him again. He looked upset.\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93He nearly killed his mother.\'94\
\
\'93It isn\'92t the little darling\'92s fault. Didn\'92t you want a boy?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. The doctor was busy with him. He held him up by the feet\
and slapped him. I did not wait to see it. I went out in the hall. I\
could go in now and see. I went in the door and a little way down the\
gallery. The nurses who were sitting at the rail motioned for me to come\
down where they were. I shook my head. I could see enough where I was.\
\
I thought Catherine was dead. She looked dead. Her face was gray, the\
part of it that I could see. Down below, under the light, the doctor was\
sewing up the great long, forcep-spread, thick-edged, wound. Another\
doctor in a mask gave the an\'e6sthetic. Two nurses in masks handed things.\
It looked like a drawing of the Inquisition. I knew as I watched I could\
have watched it all, but I was glad I hadn\'92t. I do not think I could\
have watched them cut, but I watched the wound closed into a high welted\
ridge with quick skilful-looking stitches like a cobbler\'92s, and was\
glad. When the wound was closed I went out into the hall and walked up\
and down again. After a while the doctor came out.\
\
\'93How is she?\'94\
\
\'93She is all right. Did you watch?\'94\
\
He looked tired.\
\
\'93I saw you sew up. The incision looked very long.\'94\
\
\'93You thought so?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Will that scar flatten out?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes.\'94\
\
After a while they brought out the wheeled stretcher and took it very\
rapidly down the hallway to the elevator. I went along beside it.\
Catherine was moaning. Downstairs they put her in the bed in her room. I\
sat in a chair at the foot of the bed. There was a nurse in the room. I\
got up and stood by the bed. It was dark in the room. Catherine put out\
her hand, \'93Hello, darling,\'94 she said. Her voice was very weak and tired.\
\
\'93Hello, you sweet.\'94\
\
\'93What sort of baby was it?\'94\
\
\'93Sh\'97don\'92t talk,\'94 the nurse said.\
\
\'93A boy. He\'92s long and wide and dark.\'94\
\
\'93Is he all right?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s fine.\'94\
\
I saw the nurse look at me strangely.\
\
\'93I\'92m awfully tired,\'94 Catherine said. \'93And I hurt like hell. Are you all\
right, darling?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m fine. Don\'92t talk.\'94\
\
\'93You were lovely to me. Oh, darling, I hurt dreadfully. What does he\
look like?\'94\
\
\'93He looks like a skinned rabbit with a puckered-up old-man\'92s face.\'94\
\
\'93You must go out,\'94 the nurse said. \'93Madame Henry must not talk.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll be outside,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Go and get something to eat.\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92ll be outside.\'94 I kissed Catherine. She was very gray and weak\
and tired.\
\
\'93May I speak to you?\'94 I said to the nurse. She came out in the hall with\
me. I walked a little way down the hall.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter with the baby?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Didn\'92t you know?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93He wasn\'92t alive.\'94\
\
\'93He was dead?\'94\
\
\'93They couldn\'92t start him breathing. The cord was caught around his neck\
or something.\'94\
\
\'93So he\'92s dead.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. It\'92s such a shame. He was such a fine big boy. I thought you\
knew.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93You better go back in with Madame.\'94\
\
I sat down on the chair in front of a table where there were nurses\'92\
reports hung on clips at the side and looked out of the window. I could\
see nothing but the dark and the rain falling across the light from the\
window. So that was it. The baby was dead. That was why the doctor\
looked so tired. But why had they acted the way they did in the room\
with him? They supposed he would come around and start breathing\
probably. I had no religion but I knew he ought to have been baptized.\
But what if he never breathed at all. He hadn\'92t. He had never been\
alive. Except in Catherine. I\'92d felt him kick there often enough. But I\
hadn\'92t for a week. Maybe he was choked all the time. Poor little kid. I\
wished the hell I\'92d been choked like that. No I didn\'92t. Still there\
would not be all this dying to go through. Now Catherine would die. That\
was what you did. You died. You did not know what it was about. You\
never had time to learn. They threw you in and told you the rules and\
the first time they caught you off base they killed you. Or they killed\
you gratuitously like Aymo. Or gave you the syphilis like Rinaldo. But\
they killed you in the end. You could count on that. Stay around and\
they would kill you.\
\
Once in camp I put a log on top of the fire and it was full of ants. As\
it commenced to burn, the ants swarmed out and went first toward the\
centre where the fire was; then turned back and ran toward the end. When\
there were enough on the end they fell off into the fire. Some got out,\
their bodies burnt and flattened, and went off not knowing where they\
were going. But most of them went toward the fire and then back toward\
the end and swarmed on the cool end and finally fell off into the fire.\
I remember thinking at the time that it was the end of the world and a\
splendid chance to be a messiah and lift the log off the fire and throw\
it out where the ants could get off onto the ground. But I did not do\
anything but throw a tin cup of water on the log, so that I would have\
the cup empty to put whiskey in before I added water to it. I think the\
cup of water on the burning log only steamed the ants.\
\
So now I sat out in the hall and waited to hear how Catherine was. The\
nurse did not come out, so after a while I went to the door and opened\
it very softly and looked in. I could not see at first because there was\
a bright light in the hall and it was dark in the room. Then I saw the\
nurse sitting by the bed and Catherine\'92s head on a pillow, and she all\
flat under the sheet. The nurse put her finger to her lips, then stood\
up and came to the door.\
\
\'93How is she?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93She\'92s all right,\'94 the nurse said. \'93You should go and have your supper\
and then come back if you wish.\'94\
\
I went down the hall and then down the stairs and out the door of the\
hospital and down the dark street in the rain to the caf\'e9. It was\
brightly lighted inside and there were many people at the tables. I did\
not see a place to sit, and a waiter came up to me and took my wet coat\
and hat and showed me a place at a table across from an elderly man who\
was drinking beer and reading the evening paper. I sat down and asked\
the waiter what the _plat du jour_ was.\
\
\'93Veal stew\'97but it is finished.\'94\
\
\'93What can I have to eat?\'94\
\
\'93Ham and eggs, eggs with cheese, or _choucroute_.\'94\
\
\'93I had _choucroute_ this noon,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93That\'92s true,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s true. You ate _choucroute_ this noon.\'94\
He was a middle-aged man with a bald top to his head and his hair\
slicked over it. He had a kind face.\
\
\'93What do you want? Ham and eggs or eggs with cheese?\'94\
\
\'93Ham and eggs,\'94 I said, \'93and beer.\'94\
\
\'93A demi-blonde?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I remembered,\'94 he said. \'93You took a demi-blonde this noon.\'94\
\
I ate the ham and eggs and drank the beer. The ham and eggs were in a\
round dish\'97the ham underneath and the eggs on top. It was very hot and\
at the first mouthful I had to take a drink of beer to cool my mouth. I\
was hungry and I asked the waiter for another order. I drank several\
glasses of beer. I was not thinking at all but read the paper of the man\
opposite me. It was about the break through on the British front. When\
he realized I was reading the back of his paper he folded it over. I\
thought of asking the waiter for a paper, but I could not concentrate.\
It was hot in the caf\'e9 and the air was bad. Many of the people at the\
tables knew one another. There were several card games going on. The\
waiters were busy bringing drinks from the bar to the tables. Two men\
came in and could find no place to sit. They stood opposite the table\
where I was. I ordered another beer. I was not ready to leave yet. It\
was too soon to go back to the hospital. I tried not to think and to be\
perfectly calm. The men stood around but no one was leaving, so they\
went out. I drank another beer. There was quite a pile of saucers now on\
the table in front of me. The man opposite me had taken off his\
spectacles, put them away in a case, folded his paper and put it in his\
pocket and now sat holding his liqueur glass and looking out at the\
room. Suddenly I knew I had to get back. I called the waiter, paid the\
reckoning, got into my coat, put on my hat and started out the door. I\
walked through the rain up to the hospital.\
\
Upstairs I met the nurse coming down the hall.\
\
\'93I just called you at the hotel,\'94 she said. Something dropped inside me.\
\
\'93What is wrong?\'94\
\
\'93Mrs. Henry has had a hemorrhage.\'94\
\
\'93Can I go in?\'94\
\
\'93No, not yet. The doctor is with her.\'94\
\
\'93Is it dangerous?\'94\
\
\'93It is very dangerous.\'94 The nurse went into the room and shut the door.\
I sat outside in the hall. Everything was gone inside of me. I did not\
think. I could not think. I knew she was going to die and I prayed that\
she would not. Don\'92t let her die. Oh, God, please don\'92t let her die.\
I\'92ll do anything for you if you won\'92t let her die. Please, please,\
please, dear God, don\'92t let her die. Dear God, don\'92t let her die.\
Please, please, please don\'92t let her die. God please make her not die.\
I\'92ll do anything you say if you don\'92t let her die. You took the baby but\
don\'92t let her die. That was all right but don\'92t let her die. Please,\
please, dear God, don\'92t let her die.\
\
The nurse opened the door and motioned with her finger for me to come. I\
followed her into the room. Catherine did not look up when I came in. I\
went over to the side of the bed. The doctor was standing by the bed on\
the opposite side. Catherine looked at me and smiled. I bent down over\
the bed and started to cry.\
\
\'93Poor darling,\'94 Catherine said very softly. She looked gray.\
\
\'93You\'92re all right, Cat,\'94 I said. \'93You\'92re going to be all right.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to die,\'94 she said; then waited and said, \'93I hate it.\'94\
\
I took her hand.\
\
\'93Don\'92t touch me,\'94 she said. I let go of her hand. She smiled. \'93Poor\
darling. You touch me all you want.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll be all right, Cat. I know you\'92ll be all right.\'94\
\
\'93I meant to write you a letter to have if anything happened, but I\
didn\'92t do it.\'94\
\
\'93Do you want me to get a priest or any one to come and see you?\'94\
\
\'93Just you,\'94 she said. Then a little later, \'93I\'92m not afraid. I just hate\
it.\'94\
\
\'93You must not talk so much,\'94 the doctor said.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 Catherine said.\
\
\'93Do you want me to do anything, Cat? Can I get you anything?\'94\
\
Catherine smiled, \'93No.\'94 Then a little later, \'93You won\'92t do our things\
with another girl, or say the same things, will you?\'94\
\
\'93Never.\'94\
\
\'93I want you to have girls, though.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want them.\'94\
\
\'93You are talking too much,\'94 the doctor said. \'93Mr. Henry must go out. He\
can come back again later. You are not going to die. You must not be\
silly.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I\'92ll come and stay with you nights,\'94 she\
said. It was very hard for her to talk.\
\
\'93Please go out of the room,\'94 the doctor said. \'93You cannot talk.\'94\
Catherine winked at me, her face gray. \'93I\'92ll be right outside,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t worry, darling,\'94 Catherine said. \'93I\'92m not a bit afraid. It\'92s just\
a dirty trick.\'94\
\
\'93You dear, brave sweet.\'94\
\
I waited outside in the hall. I waited a long time. The nurse came to\
the door and came over to me. \'93I\'92m afraid Mrs. Henry is very ill,\'94 she\
said. \'93I\'92m afraid for her.\'94\
\
\'93Is she dead?\'94\
\
\'93No, but she is unconscious.\'94\
\
It seems she had one hemorrhage after another. They couldn\'92t stop it. I\
went into the room and stayed with Catherine until she died. She was\
unconscious all the time, and it did not take her very long to die.\
\
\
\
Outside the room, in the hall, I spoke to the doctor, \'93is there anything\
I can do to-night?\'94\
\
\'93No. There is nothing to do. Can I take you to your hotel?\'94\
\
\'93No, thank you. I am going to stay here a while.\'94\
\
\'93I know there is nothing to say. I cannot tell you\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93There\'92s nothing to say.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night,\'94 he said. \'93I cannot take you to your hotel?\'94\
\
\'93No, thank you.\'94\
\
\'93It was the only thing to do,\'94 he said. \'93The operation proved\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93I do not want to talk about it,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I would like to take you to your hotel.\'94\
\
\'93No, thank you.\'94\
\
He went down the hall. I went to the door of the room.\
\
\'93You can\'92t come in now,\'94 one of the nurses said.\
\
\'93Yes I can,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You can\'92t come in yet.\'94\
\
\'93You get out,\'94 I said. \'93The other one too.\'94\
\
But after I had got them out and shut the door and turned off the light\
it wasn\'92t any good. It was like saying good-by to a statue. After a\
while I went out and left the hospital and walked back to the hotel in\
the rain.\
\
                                THE END\
\
\
\
\
}