{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2865
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28260\viewh15600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
                           MEN WITHOUT WOMEN\
\
\
\
\
                             THE UNDEFEATED\
\
\
MANUEL GARCIA climbed the stairs to Don Miguel Retana\'92s office. He set\
down his suitcase and knocked on the door. There was no answer. Manuel,\
standing in the hallway, felt there was some one in the room. He felt it\
through the door.\
\
\'93Retana,\'94 he said, listening.\
\
There was no answer.\
\
He\'92s there, all right, Manuel thought.\
\
\'93Retana,\'94 he said and banged the door.\
\
\'93Who\'92s there?\'94 said some one in the office.\
\
\'93Me, Manolo,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93What do you want?\'94 asked the voice.\
\
\'93I want to work,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
Something in the door clicked several times and it swung open. Manuel\
went in, carrying his suitcase.\
\
A little man sat behind a desk at the far side of the room. Over his\
head was a bull\'92s head, stuffed by a Madrid taxidermist; on the walls\
were framed photographs and bull-fight posters.\
\
The little man sat looking at Manuel.\
\
\'93I thought they\'92d killed you,\'94 he said.\
\
Manuel knocked with his knuckles on the desk. The little man sat looking\
at him across the desk.\
\
\'93How many corridas you had this year?\'94 Retana asked.\
\
\'93One,\'94 he answered.\
\
\'93Just that one?\'94 the little man asked.\
\
\'93That\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93I read about it in the papers,\'94 Retana said. He leaned back in the\
chair and looked at Manuel.\
\
Manuel looked up at the stuffed bull. He had seen it often before. He\
felt a certain family interest in it. It had killed his brother, the\
promising one, about nine years ago. Manuel remembered the day. There\
was a brass plate on the oak shield the bull\'92s head was mounted on.\
Manuel could not read it, but he imagined it was in memory of his\
brother. Well, he had been a good kid.\
\
The plate said: \'93The Bull \'91Mariposa\'92 of the Duke of Veragua, which\
accepted 9 varas for 7 caballos, and caused the death of Antonio Garcia,\
Novillero, April 27, 1909.\'94\
\
Retana saw him looking at the stuffed bull\'92s head.\
\
\'93The lot the Duke sent me for Sunday will make a scandal,\'94 he said.\
\'93They\'92re all bad in the legs. What do they say about them at the Caf\'e9?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I just got in.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 Retana said. \'93You still have your bag.\'94\
\
He looked at Manuel, leaning back behind the big desk.\
\
\'93Sit down,\'94 he said. \'93Take off your cap.\'94\
\
Manuel sat down; his cap off, his face was changed. He looked pale, and\
his coleta pinned forward on his head, so that it would not show under\
the cap, gave him a strange look.\
\
\'93You don\'92t look well,\'94 Retana said.\
\
\'93I just got out of the hospital,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93I heard they\'92d cut your leg off,\'94 Retana said.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Manuel. \'93It got all right.\'94\
\
Retana leaned forward across the desk and pushed a wooden box of\
cigarettes toward Manuel.\
\
\'93Have a cigarette,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Thanks.\'94\
\
Manuel lit it.\
\
\'93Smoke?\'94 he said, offering the match to Retana.\
\
\'93No,\'94 Retana waved his hand, \'93I never smoke.\'94\
\
Retana watched him smoking.\
\
\'93Why don\'92t you get a job and go to work?\'94 he said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to work,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I am a bull-fighter.\'94\
\
\'93There aren\'92t any bull-fighters any more,\'94 Retana said.\
\
\'93I\'92m a bull-fighter,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93Yes, while you\'92re in there,\'94 Retana said.\
\
Manuel laughed.\
\
Retana sat, saying nothing and looking at Manuel.\
\
\'93I\'92ll put you in a nocturnal if you want,\'94 Retana offered.\
\
\'93When?\'94 Manuel asked.\
\
\'93To-morrow night.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t like to substitute for anybody,\'94 Manuel said. That was the way\
they all got killed. That was the way Salvador got killed. He tapped\
with his knuckles on the table.\
\
\'93It\'92s all I\'92ve got,\'94 Retana said.\
\
\'93Why don\'92t you put me on next week?\'94 Manuel suggested.\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t draw,\'94 Retana said. \'93All they want is Litri and Rubito and\
La Torre. Those kids are good.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92d come to see me get it,\'94 Manuel said, hopefully.\
\
\'93No, they wouldn\'92t. They don\'92t know who you are any more.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got a lot of stuff,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93I\'92m offering to put you on to-morrow night,\'94 Retana said. \'93You can work\
with young Hernandez and kill two novillos after the Chariots.\'94\
\
\'93Whose novillos?\'94 Manuel asked.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. Whatever stuff they\'92ve got in the corrals. What the\
veterinaries won\'92t pass in the daytime.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t like to substitute,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93You can take it or leave it,\'94 Retana said. He leaned forward over the\
papers. He was no longer interested. The appeal that Manuel had made to\
him for a moment when he thought of the old days was gone. He would like\
to get him to substitute for Larita because he could get him cheaply. He\
could get others cheaply too. He would like to help him though. Still he\
had given him the chance. It was up to him.\
\
\'93How much do I get?\'94 Manuel asked. He was still playing with the idea of\
refusing. But he knew he could not refuse.\
\
\'93Two hundred and fifty pesetas,\'94 Retana said. He had thought of five\
hundred, but when he opened his mouth it said two hundred and fifty.\
\
\'93You pay Villalta seven thousand,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93You\'92re not Villalta,\'94 Retana said.\
\
\'93I know it,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93He draws it, Manolo,\'94 Retana said in explanation.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Manuel. He stood up. \'93Give me three hundred, Retana.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 Retana agreed. He reached in the drawer for a paper.\
\
\'93Can I have fifty now?\'94 Manuel asked.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Retana. He took a fifty peseta note out of his pocket-book\
and laid it, spread out flat, on the table.\
\
Manuel picked it up and put it in his pocket.\
\
\'93What about a cuadrilla?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93There\'92s the boys that always work for me nights,\'94 Retana said. \'93They\'92re\
all right.\'94\
\
\'93How about picadors?\'94 Manuel asked.\
\
\'93They\'92re not much,\'94 Retana admitted.\
\
\'93I\'92ve got to have one good pic,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93Get him then,\'94 Retana said. \'93Go and get him.\'94\
\
\'93Not out of this,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I\'92m not paying for any cuadrilla out of\
sixty duros.\'94\
\
Retana said nothing but looked at Manuel across the big desk.\
\
\'93You know I\'92ve got to have one good pic,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
Retana said nothing but looked at Manuel from a long way off.\
\
\'93It isn\'92t right,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
Retana was still considering him, leaning back in his chair, considering\
him from a long way away.\
\
\'93There\'92re the regular pics,\'94 he offered.\
\
\'93I know,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I know your regular pics.\'94\
\
Retana did not smile. Manuel knew it was over.\
\
\'93All I want is an even break,\'94 Manuel said reasoningly. \'93When I go out\
there I want to be able to call my shots on the bull. It only takes one\
good picador.\'94\
\
He was talking to a man who was no longer listening.\
\
\'93If you want something extra,\'94 Retana said, \'93go and get it. There will\
be a regular cuadrilla out there. Bring as many of your own pics as you\
want. The charlotada is over by 10.30.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 Manuel said. \'93If that\'92s the way you feel about it.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the way,\'94 Retana said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll see you to-morrow night,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll be out there,\'94 Retana said.\
\
Manuel picked up his suitcase and went out.\
\
\'93Shut the door,\'94 Retana called.\
\
Manuel looked back. Retana was sitting forward looking at some papers.\
Manuel pulled the door tight until it clicked.\
\
He went down the stairs and out of the door into the hot brightness of\
the street. It was very hot in the street and the light on the white\
buildings was sudden and hard on his eyes. He walked down the shady side\
of the steep street toward the Puerta del Sol. The shade felt solid and\
cool as running water. The heat came suddenly as he crossed the\
intersecting streets. Manuel saw no one he knew in all the people he\
passed.\
\
Just before the Puerta del Sol he turned into a caf\'e9.\
\
It was quiet in the caf\'e9. There were a few men sitting at tables against\
the wall. At one table four men played cards. Most of the men sat\
against the wall smoking, empty coffee-cups and liqueur-glasses before\
them on the tables. Manuel went through the long room to a small room in\
back. A man sat at a table in the corner asleep. Manuel sat down at one\
of the tables.\
\
A waiter came in and stood beside Manuel\'92s table.\
\
\'93Have you seen Zurito?\'94 Manuel asked him.\
\
\'93He was in before lunch,\'94 the waiter answered. \'93He won\'92t be back before\
five o\'92clock.\'94\
\
\'93Bring me some coffee and milk and a shot of the ordinary,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
The waiter came back into the room carrying a tray with a big\
coffee-glass and a liqueur-glass on it. In his left hand he held a\
bottle of brandy. He swung these down to the table and a boy who had\
followed him poured coffee and milk into the glass from two shiny,\
spouted pots with long handles.\
\
Manuel took off his cap and the waiter noticed his pigtail pinned\
forward on his head. He winked at the coffee-boy as he poured out the\
brandy into the little glass beside Manuel\'92s coffee. The coffee-boy\
looked at Manuel\'92s pale face curiously.\
\
\'93You fighting here?\'94 asked the waiter, corking up the bottle.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 Manuel said. \'93To-morrow.\'94\
\
The waiter stood there, holding the bottle on one hip.\
\
\'93You in the Charlie Chaplins?\'94 he asked.\
\
The coffee-boy looked away, embarrassed.\
\
\'93No. In the ordinary.\'94\
\
\'93I thought they were going to have Chaves and Hernandez,\'94 the waiter\
said.\
\
\'93No. Me and another.\'94\
\
\'93Who? Chaves or Hernandez?\'94\
\
\'93Hernandez, I think.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter with Chaves?\'94\
\
\'93He got hurt.\'94\
\
\'93Where did you hear that?\'94\
\
\'93Retana.\'94\
\
\'93Hey, Looie,\'94 the waiter called to the next room, \'93Chaves got cogida.\'94\
\
Manuel had taken the wrapper off the lumps of sugar and dropped them\
into his coffee. He stirred it and drank it down, sweet, hot, and\
warming in his empty stomach. He drank off the brandy.\
\
\'93Give me another shot of that,\'94 he said to the waiter.\
\
The waiter uncorked the bottle and poured the glass full, slopping\
another drink into the saucer. Another waiter had come up in front of\
the table. The coffee-boy was gone.\
\
\'93Is Chaves hurt bad?\'94 the second waiter asked Manuel.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Manuel said, \'93Retana didn\'92t say.\'94\
\
\'93A hell of a lot he cares,\'94 the tall waiter said. Manuel had not seen\
him before. He must have just come up.\
\
\'93If you stand in with Retana in this town, you\'92re a made man,\'94 the tall\
waiter said. \'93If you aren\'92t in with him, you might just as well go out\
and shoot yourself.\'94\
\
\'93You said it,\'94 the other waiter who had come in said. \'93You said it\
then.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re right I said it,\'94 said the tall waiter. \'93I know what I\'92m talking\
about when I talk about that bird.\'94\
\
\'93Look what he\'92s done for Villalta,\'94 the first waiter said.\
\
\'93And that ain\'92t all,\'94 the tall waiter said. \'93Look what he\'92s done for\
Marcial Lalanda. Look what he\'92s done for Nacional.\'94\
\
\'93You said it, kid,\'94 agreed the short waiter.\
\
Manuel looked at them, standing talking in front of his table. He had\
drunk his second brandy. They had forgotten about him. They were not\
interested in him.\
\
\'93Look at that bunch of camels,\'94 the tall waiter went on. \'93Did you ever\
see this Nacional II?\'94\
\
\'93I seen him last Sunday didn\'92t I?\'94 the original waiter said.\
\
\'93He\'92s a giraffe,\'94 the short waiter said.\
\
\'93What did I tell you?\'94 the tall waiter said. \'93Those are Retana\'92s boys.\'94\
\
\'93Say, give me another shot of that,\'94 Manuel said. He had poured the\
brandy the waiter had slopped over in the saucer into his glass and\
drank it while they were talking.\
\
The original waiter poured his glass full mechanically, and the three of\
them went out of the room talking.\
\
In the far corner the man was still asleep, snoring slightly on the\
intaking breath, his head back against the wall.\
\
Manuel drank his brandy. He felt sleepy himself. It was too hot to go\
out into the town. Besides there was nothing to do. He wanted to see\
Zurito. He would go to sleep while he waited. He kicked his suitcase\
under the table to be sure it was there. Perhaps it would be better to\
put it back under the seat, against the wall. He leaned down and shoved\
it under. Then he leaned forward on the table and went to sleep.\
\
When he woke there was some one sitting across the table from him. It\
was a big man with a heavy brown face like an Indian. He had been\
sitting there some time. He had waved the waiter away and sat reading\
the paper and occasionally looking down at Manuel, asleep, his head on\
the table. He read the paper laboriously, forming the words with his\
lips as he read. When it tired him he looked at Manuel. He sat heavily\
in the chair, his black Cordoba hat tipped forward.\
\
Manuel sat up and looked at him.\
\
\'93Hello, Zurito,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Hello, kid,\'94 the big man said.\
\
\'93I\'92ve been asleep.\'94 Manuel rubbed his forehead with the back of his\
fist.\
\
\'93I thought maybe you were.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s everything?\'94\
\
\'93Good. How is everything with you?\'94\
\
\'93Not so good.\'94\
\
They were both silent. Zurito, the picador, looked at Manuel\'92s white\
face. Manuel looked down at the picador\'92s enormous hands folding the\
paper to put away in his pocket.\
\
\'93I got a favor to ask you, Manos,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
Manosduros was Zurito\'92s nickname. He never heard it without thinking of\
his huge hands. He put them forward on the table self-consciously.\
\
\'93Let\'92s have a drink,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Manuel.\
\
The waiter came and went and came again. He went out of the room looking\
back at the two men at the table.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, Manolo?\'94 Zurito set down his glass.\
\
\'93Would you pic two bulls for me to-morrow night?\'94 Manuel asked, looking\
up at Zurito across the table.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Zurito. \'93I\'92m not pic-ing.\'94\
\
Manuel looked down at his glass. He had expected that answer; now he had\
it. Well, he had it.\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry, Manolo, but I\'92m not pic-ing.\'94 Zurito looked at his hands.\
\
\'93That\'92s all right,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93I\'92m too old,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
\'93I just asked you,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93Is it the nocturnal to-morrow?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it. I figured if I had just one good pic, I could get away with\
it.\'94\
\
\'93How much are you getting?\'94\
\
\'93Three hundred pesetas.\'94\
\
\'93I get more than that for pic-ing.\'94\
\
\'93I know,\'94 said Manuel. \'93I didn\'92t have any right to ask you.\'94\
\
\'93What do you keep on doing it for?\'94 Zurito asked. \'93Why don\'92t you cut off\
your coleta, Manolo?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93You\'92re pretty near as old as I am,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I got to do it. If I can fix it so that I\
get an even break, that\'92s all I want. I got to stick with it, Manos.\'94\
\
\'93No, you don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I do. I\'92ve tried keeping away from it.\'94\
\
\'93I know how you feel. But it isn\'92t right. You ought to get out and stay\
out.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t do it. Besides, I\'92ve been going good lately.\'94\
\
Zurito looked at his face.\
\
\'93You\'92ve been in the hospital.\'94\
\
\'93But I was going great when I got hurt.\'94\
\
Zurito said nothing. He tipped the cognac out of his saucer into his\
glass.\
\
\'93The papers said they never saw a better faena,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
Zurito looked at him.\
\
\'93You know when I get going I\'92m good,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93You\'92re too old,\'94 the picador said.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Manuel. \'93You\'92re ten years older than I am.\'94\
\
\'93With me it\'92s different.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not too old,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
They sat silent, Manuel watching the picador\'92s face.\
\
\'93I was going great till I got hurt,\'94 Manuel offered.\
\
\'93You ought to have seen me, Manos,\'94 Manuel said, reproachfully.\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to see you,\'94 Zurito said. \'93It makes me nervous.\'94\
\
\'93You haven\'92t seen me lately.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve seen you plenty.\'94\
\
Zurito looked at Manuel, avoiding his eyes.\
\
\'93You ought to quit it, Manolo.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I\'92m going good now, I tell you.\'94\
\
Zurito leaned forward, his hands on the table.\
\
\'93Listen. I\'92ll pic for you and if you don\'92t go big to-morrow night,\
you\'92ll quit. See? Will you do that?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
Zurito leaned back, relieved.\
\
\'93You got to quit,\'94 he said. \'93No monkey business. You got to cut the\
coleta.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t have to quit,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You watch me. I\'92ve got the stuff.\'94\
\
Zurito stood up. He felt tired from arguing.\
\
\'93You got to quit,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ll cut your coleta myself.\'94\
\
\'93No, you won\'92t,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You won\'92t have a chance.\'94\
\
Zurito called the waiter.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 said Zurito. \'93Come on up to the house.\'94\
\
Manuel reached under the seat for his suitcase. He was happy. He knew\
Zurito would pic for him. He was the best picador living. It was all\
simple now.\
\
\'93Come on up to the house and we\'92ll eat,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
                 *        *        *        *        *\
\
Manuel stood in the patio de caballos waiting for the Charlie Chaplins\
to be over. Zurito stood beside him. Where they stood it was dark. The\
high door that led into the bull-ring was shut. Above them they heard a\
shout, then another shout of laughter. Then there was silence. Manuel\
liked the smell of the stables about the patio de caballos. It smelt\
good in the dark. There was another roar from the arena and then\
applause, prolonged applause, going on and on.\
\
\'93You ever seen these fellows?\'94 Zurito asked, big and looming beside\
Manuel in the dark.\
\
\'93No,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93They\'92re pretty funny.\'94 Zurito said. He smiled to himself in the dark.\
\
The high, double, tight-fitting door into the bull-ring swung open and\
Manuel saw the ring in the hard light of the arc-lights, the plaza, dark\
all the way around, rising high; around the edge of the ring were\
running and bowing two men dressed like tramps, followed by a third in\
the uniform of a hotel bell-boy who stooped and picked up the hats and\
canes thrown down onto the sand and tossed them back up into the\
darkness.\
\
The electric light went on in the patio.\
\
\'93I\'92ll climb onto one of those ponies while you collect the kids,\'94 Zurito\
said.\
\
Behind them came the jingle of the mules, coming out to go into the\
arena and be hitched onto the dead bull.\
\
The members of the cuadrilla, who had been watching the burlesque from\
the runway between the barrera and the seats, came walking back and\
stood in a group talking, under the electric light in the patio. A\
good-looking lad in a silver-and-orange suit came up to Manuel and\
smiled.\
\
\'93I\'92m Hernandez,\'94 he said and put out his hand.\
\
Manuel shook it.\
\
\'93They\'92re regular elephants we\'92ve got to-night,\'94 the boy said cheerfully.\
\
\'93They\'92re big ones with horns,\'94 Manuel agreed.\
\
\'93You drew the worst lot,\'94 the boy said.\
\
\'93That\'92s all right,\'94 Manuel said. \'93The bigger they are, the more meat for\
the poor.\'94\
\
\'93Where did you get that one?\'94 Hernandez grinned.\
\
\'93That\'92s an old one,\'94 Manuel said. \'93You line up your cuadrilla, so I can\
see what I\'92ve got.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve got some good kids,\'94 Hernandez said. He was very cheerful. He\
had been on twice before in nocturnals and was beginning to get a\
following in Madrid. He was happy the fight would start in a few\
minutes.\
\
\'93Where are the pics?\'94 Manuel asked.\
\
\'93They\'92re back in the corrals fighting about who gets the beautiful\
horses,\'94 Hernandez grinned.\
\
The mules came through the gate in a rush, the whips snapping, bells\
jangling and the young bull ploughing a furrow of sand.\
\
They formed up for the paseo as soon as the bull had gone through.\
\
Manuel and Hernandez stood in front. The youths of the cuadrillas were\
behind, their heavy capes furled over their arms. In back, the four\
picadors, mounted, holding their steel-tipped push-poles erect in the\
half-dark of the corral.\
\
\'93It\'92s a wonder Retana wouldn\'92t give us enough light to see the horses\
by,\'94 one picador said.\
\
\'93He knows we\'92ll be happier if we don\'92t get too good a look at these\
skins,\'94 another pic answered.\
\
\'93This thing I\'92m on barely keeps me off the ground,\'94 the first picador\
said.\
\
\'93Well, they\'92re horses.\'94\
\
\'93Sure, they\'92re horses.\'94\
\
They talked, sitting their gaunt horses in the dark.\
\
Zurito said nothing. He had the only steady horse of the lot. He had\
tried him, wheeling him in the corrals and he responded to the bit and\
the spurs. He had taken the bandage off his right eye and cut the\
strings where they had tied his ears tight shut at the base. He was a\
good, solid horse, solid on his legs. That was all he needed. He\
intended to ride him all through the corrida. He had already, since he\
had mounted, sitting in the half-dark in the big, quilted saddle,\
waiting for the paseo, pic-ed through the whole corrida in his mind. The\
other picadors went on talking on both sides of him. He did not hear\
them.\
\
The two matadors stood together in front of their three peones, their\
capes furled over their left arms in the same fashion. Manuel was\
thinking about the three lads in back of him. They were all three\
Madrile\'f1os, like Hernandez, boys about nineteen. One of them, a gypsy,\
serious, aloof, and dark-faced, he liked the look of. He turned.\
\
\'93What\'92s your name, kid?\'94 he asked the gypsy.\
\
\'93Fuentes,\'94 the gypsy said.\
\
\'93That\'92s a good name,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
The gypsy smiled, showing his teeth.\
\
\'93You take the bull and give him a little run when he comes out,\'94 Manuel\
said.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 the gypsy said. His face was serious. He began to think\
about just what he would do.\
\
\'93Here she goes,\'94 Manuel said to Hernandez.\
\
\'93All right. We\'92ll go.\'94\
\
Heads up, swinging with the music, their right arms swinging free, they\
stepped out, crossing the sanded arena under the arc-lights, the\
cuadrillas opening out behind, the picadors riding after, behind came\
the bull-ring servants and the jingling mules. The crowd applauded\
Hernandez as they marched across the arena. Arrogant, swinging, they\
looked straight ahead as they marched.\
\
They bowed before the president, and the procession broke up into its\
component parts. The bull-fighters went over to the barrera and changed\
their heavy mantles for the light fighting capes. The mules went out.\
The picadors galloped jerkily around the ring, and two rode out the gate\
they had come in by. The servants swept the sand smooth.\
\
Manuel drank a glass of water poured for him by one of Retana\'92s\
deputies, who was acting as his manager and sword-handler. Hernandez\
came over from speaking with his own manager.\
\
\'93You got a good hand, kid,\'94 Manuel complimented him.\
\
\'93They like me,\'94 Hernandez said happily.\
\
\'93How did the paseo go?\'94 Manuel asked Retana\'92s man.\
\
\'93Like a wedding,\'94 said the handler. \'93Fine. You came out like Joselito\
and Belmonte.\'94\
\
Zurito rode by, a bulky equestrian statue. He wheeled his horse and\
faced him toward the toril on the far side of the ring where the bull\
would come out. It was strange under the arc-light. He pic-ed in the hot\
afternoon sun for big money. He didn\'92t like this arc-light business. He\
wished they would get started.\
\
Manuel went up to him.\
\
\'93Pic him, Manos,\'94 he said. \'93Cut him down to size for me.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll pic him, kid,\'94 Zurito spat on the sand. \'93I\'92ll make him jump out of\
the ring.\'94\
\
\'93Lean on him, Manos,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll lean on him,\'94 Zurito said. \'93What\'92s holding it up?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s coming now,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
Zurito sat there, his feet in the box-stirrups, his great legs in the\
buckskin-covered armor gripping the horse, the reins in his left hand,\
the long pic held in his right hand, his broad hat well down over his\
eyes to shade them from the lights, watching the distant door of the\
toril. His horse\'92s ears quivered. Zurito patted him with his left hand.\
\
The red door of the toril swung back and for a moment Zurito looked into\
the empty passageway far across the arena. Then the bull came out in a\
rush, skidding on his four legs as he came out under the lights, then\
charging in a gallop, moving softly in a fast gallop, silent except as\
he woofed through wide nostrils as he charged, glad to be free after the\
dark pen.\
\
In the first row of seats, slightly bored, leaning forward to write on\
the cement wall in front of his knees, the substitute bull-fight critic\
of _El Heraldo_ scribbled: \'93Campagnero, Negro, 42, came out at 90 miles\
an hour with plenty of gas\'97\'97\'94\
\
Manuel, leaning against the barrera, watching the bull, waved his hand\
and the gypsy ran out, trailing his cape. The bull, in full gallop,\
pivoted and charged the cape, his head down, his tail rising. The gypsy\
moved in a zigzag, and as he passed, the bull caught sight of him and\
abandoned the cape to charge the man. The gyp sprinted and vaulted the\
red fence of the barrera as the bull struck it with his horns. He tossed\
into it twice with his horns, banging into the wood blindly.\
\
The critic of _El Heraldo_ lit a cigarette and tossed the match at the\
bull, then wrote in his note-book, \'93large and with enough horns to\
satisfy the cash customers, Campagnero showed a tendency to cut into the\
terrane of the bull-fighters.\'94\
\
Manuel stepped out on the hard sand as the bull banged into the fence.\
Out of the corner of his eye he saw Zurito sitting the white horse close\
to the barrera, about a quarter of the way around the ring to the left.\
Manuel held the cape close in front of him, a fold in each hand, and\
shouted at the bull. \'93Huh! Huh!\'94 The bull turned, seemed to brace\
against the fence as he charged in a scramble, driving into the cape as\
Manuel side-stepped, pivoted on his heels with the charge of the bull,\
and swung the cape just ahead of the horns. At the end of the swing he\
was facing the bull again and held the cape in the same position close\
in front of his body, and pivoted again as the bull recharged. Each\
time, as he swung, the crowd shouted.\
\
Four times he swung with the bull, lifting the cape so it billowed full,\
and each time bringing the bull around to charge again. Then, at the end\
of the fifth swing, he held the cape against his hip and pivoted, so the\
cape swung out like a ballet dancer\'92s skirt and wound the bull around\
himself like a belt, to step clear, leaving the bull facing Zurito on\
the white horse, come up and planted firm, the horse facing the bull,\
its ears forward, its lips nervous, Zurito, his hat over his eyes,\
leaning forward, the long pole sticking out before and behind in a sharp\
angle under his right arm, held half-way down, the triangular iron point\
facing the bull.\
\
_El Heraldo\'92s_ second-string critic, drawing on his cigarette, his eyes\
on the bull, wrote: \'93the veteran Manolo designed a series of acceptable\
veronicas, ending in a very Belmontistic recorte that earned applause\
from the regulars, and we entered the tercio of the cavalry.\'94\
\
Zurito sat his horse, measuring the distance between the bull and the\
end of the pic. As he looked, the bull gathered himself together and\
charged, his eyes on the horse\'92s chest. As he lowered his head to hook,\
Zurito sunk the point of the pic in the swelling hump of muscle above\
the bull\'92s shoulder, leaned all his weight on the shaft, and with his\
left hand pulled the white horse into the air, front hoofs pawing, and\
swung him to the right as he pushed the bull under and through so the\
horns passed safely under the horse\'92s belly and the horse came down,\
quivering, the bull\'92s tail brushing his chest as he charged the cape\
Hernandez offered him.\
\
Hernandez ran sideways, taking the bull out and away with the cape,\
toward the other picador. He fixed him with a swing of the cape,\
squarely facing the horse and rider, and stepped back. As the bull saw\
the horse he charged. The picador\'92s lance slid along his back, and as\
the shock of the charge lifted the horse, the picador was already\
half-way out of the saddle, lifting his right leg clear as he missed\
with the lance and falling to the left side to keep the horse between\
him and the bull. The horse, lifted and gored, crashed over with the\
bull driving into him, the picador gave a shove with his boots against\
the horse and lay clear, waiting to be lifted and hauled away and put on\
his feet.\
\
Manuel let the bull drive into the fallen horse; he was in no hurry, the\
picador was safe; besides, it did a picador like that good to worry.\
He\'92d stay on longer next time. Lousy pics! He looked across the sand at\
Zurito a little way out from the barrera, his horse rigid, waiting.\
\
\'93Huh!\'94 he called to the bull, \'93Tomar!\'94 holding the cape in both hands so\
it would catch his eye. The bull detached himself from the horse and\
charged the cape, and Manuel, running sideways and holding the cape\
spread wide, stopped, swung on his heels, and brought the bull sharply\
around facing Zurito.\
\
\'93Campagnero accepted a pair of varas for the death of one rosinante,\
with Hernandez and Manolo at the quites,\'94 _El Heraldo\'92s_ critic wrote.\
\'93He pressed on the iron and clearly showed he was no horse-lover. The\
veteran Zurito resurrected some of his old stuff with the pike-pole,\
notably the suerte\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93Ol\'e9 Ol\'e9!\'94 the man sitting beside him shouted. The shout was lost in the\
roar of the crowd, and he slapped the critic on the back. The critic\
looked up to see Zurito, directly below him, leaning far out over his\
horse, the length of the pic rising in a sharp angle under his armpit,\
holding the pic almost by the point, bearing down with all his weight,\
holding the bull off, the bull pushing and driving to get at the horse,\
and Zurito, far out, on top of him, holding him, holding him, and slowly\
pivoting the horse against the pressure, so that at last he was clear.\
Zurito felt the moment when the horse was clear and the bull could come\
past, and relaxed the absolute steel lock of his resistance, and the\
triangular steel point of the pic ripped in the bull\'92s hump of shoulder\
muscle as he tore loose to find Hernandez\'92s cape before his muzzle. He\
charged blindly into the cape and the boy took him out into the open\
arena.\
\
Zurito sat patting his horse and looking at the bull charging the cape\
that Hernandez swung for him out under the bright light while the crowd\
shouted.\
\
\'93You see that one?\'94 he said to Manuel.\
\
\'93It was a wonder,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93I got him that time,\'94 Zurito said. \'93Look at him now.\'94\
\
At the conclusion of a closely turned pass of the cape the bull slid to\
his knees. He was up at once, but far out across the sand Manuel and\
Zurito saw the shine of the pumping flow of blood, smooth against the\
black of the bull\'92s shoulder.\
\
\'93I got him that time,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
\'93He\'92s a good bull,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93If they gave me another shot at him, I\'92d kill him,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
\'93They\'92ll change the thirds on us,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
\'93Look at him now,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
\'93I got to go over there,\'94 Manuel said, and started on a run for the\
other side of the ring, where the monos were leading a horse out by the\
bridle toward the bull, whacking him on the legs with rods and all, in a\
procession, trying to get him toward the bull, who stood, dropping his\
head, pawing, unable to make up his mind to charge.\
\
Zurito, sitting his horse, walking him toward the scene, not missing any\
detail, scowled.\
\
Finally the bull charged, the horse leaders ran for the barrera, the\
picador hit too far back, and the bull got under the horse, lifted him,\
threw him onto his back.\
\
Zurito watched. The monos, in their red shirts, running out to drag the\
picador clear. The picador, now on his feet, swearing and flopping his\
arms. Manuel and Hernandez standing ready with their capes. And the\
bull, the great, black bull, with a horse on his back, hooves dangling,\
the bridle caught in the horns. Black bull with a horse on his back,\
staggering short-legged, then arching his neck and lifting, thrusting,\
charging to slide the horse off, horse sliding down. Then the bull into\
a lunging charge at the cape Manuel spread for him.\
\
The bull was slower now, Manuel felt. He was bleeding badly. There was a\
sheen of blood all down his flank.\
\
Manuel offered him the cape again. There he came, eyes open, ugly,\
watching the cape. Manuel stepped to the side and raised his arms,\
tightening the cape ahead of the bull for the veronica.\
\
Now he was facing the bull. Yes, his head was going down a little. He\
was carrying it lower. That was Zurito.\
\
Manuel flopped the cape; there he comes; he side-stepped and swung in\
another veronica. He\'92s shooting awfully accurately, he thought. He\'92s had\
enough fight, so he\'92s watching now. He\'92s hunting now. Got his eye on me.\
But I always give him the cape.\
\
He shook the cape at the bull; there he comes; he side-stepped. Awful\
close that time. I don\'92t want to work that close to him.\
\
The edge of the cape was wet with blood where it had swept along the\
bull\'92s back as he went by.\
\
All right, here\'92s the last one.\
\
Manuel, facing the bull, having turned with him each charge, offered the\
cape with his two hands. The bull looked at him. Eyes watching, horns\
straight forward, the bull looked at him, watching.\
\
\'93Huh!\'94 Manuel said, \'93Toro!\'94 and leaning back, swung the cape forward.\
Here he comes. He side-stepped, swung the cape in back of him, and\
pivoted, so the bull followed a swirl of cape and then was left with\
nothing, fixed by the pass, dominated by the cape. Manuel swung the cape\
under his muzzle with one hand, to show the bull was fixed, and walked\
away.\
\
There was no applause.\
\
Manuel walked across the sand toward the barrera, while Zurito rode out\
of the ring. The trumpet had blown to change the act to the planting of\
the banderillos while Manuel had been working with the bull. He had not\
consciously noticed it. The monos were spreading canvas over the two\
dead horses and sprinkling sawdust around them.\
\
Manuel came up to the barrera for a drink of water. Retana\'92s man handed\
him the heavy porous jug.\
\
Fuentes, the tall gypsy, was standing holding a pair of banderillos,\
holding them together, slim, red sticks, fish-hook points out. He looked\
at Manuel.\
\
\'93Go on out there,\'94 Manuel said.\
\
The gypsy trotted out. Manuel set down the jug and watched. He wiped his\
face with his handkerchief.\
\
The critic of _El Heraldo_ reached for the bottle of warm champagne that\
stood between his feet, took a drink, and finished his paragraph.\
\
\'93\'97the aged Manolo rated no applause for a vulgar series of lances with\
the cape and we entered the third of the palings.\'94\
\
Alone in the centre of the ring the bull stood, still fixed. Fuentes,\
tall, flat-backed, walking toward him arrogantly, his arms spread out,\
the two slim, red sticks, one in each hand, held by the fingers, points\
straight forward. Fuentes walked forward. Back of him and to one side\
was a peon with a cape. The bull looked at him and was no longer fixed.\
\
His eyes watched Fuentes, now standing still. Now he leaned back,\
calling to him. Fuentes twitched the two banderillos and the light on\
the steel points caught the bull\'92s eye.\
\
His tail went up and he charged.\
\
He came straight, his eyes on the man. Fuentes stood still, leaning\
back, the banderillos pointing forward. As the bull lowered his head to\
hook, Fuentes leaned backward, his arms came together and rose, his two\
hands touching, the banderillos two descending red lines, and leaning\
forward drove the points into the bull\'92s shoulder, leaning far in over\
the bull\'92s horns and pivoting on the two upright sticks, his legs tight\
together, his body curving to one side to let the bull pass.\
\
\'93Ol\'e9!\'94 from the crowd.\
\
The bull was hooking wildly, jumping like a trout, all four feet off the\
ground. The red shaft of the banderillos tossed as he jumped.\
\
Manuel standing at the barrera, noticed that he hooked always to the\
right.\
\
\'93Tell him to drop the next pair on the right,\'94 he said to the kid who\
started to run out to Fuentes with the new banderillos.\
\
A heavy hand fell on his shoulder. It was Zurito.\
\
\'93How do you feel, kid?\'94 he asked.\
\
Manuel was watching the bull.\
\
Zurito leaned forward on the barrera, leaning the weight of his body on\
his arms. Manuel turned to him.\
\
\'93You\'92re going good,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
Manuel shook his head. He had nothing to do now until the next third.\
The gypsy was very good with the banderillos. The bull would come to him\
in the next third in good shape. He was a good bull. It had all been\
easy up to now. The final stuff with the sword was all he worried over.\
He did not really worry. He did not even think about it. But standing\
there he had a heavy sense of apprehension. He looked out at the bull,\
planning his faena, his work with the red cloth that was to reduce the\
bull, to make him manageable.\
\
The gypsy was walking out toward the bull again, walking heel-and-toe,\
insultingly, like a ball-room dancer, the red shafts of the banderillos\
twitching with his walk. The bull watched him, not fixed now, hunting\
him, but waiting to get close enough so he could be sure of getting him,\
getting the horns into him.\
\
As Fuentes walked forward the bull charged. Fuentes ran across the\
quarter of a circle as the bull charged and, as he passed running\
backward, stopped, swung forward, rose on his toes, arms straight out,\
and sunk the banderillos straight down into the tight of the big\
shoulder muscles as the bull missed him.\
\
The crowd were wild about it.\
\
\'93That kid won\'92t stay in this night stuff long,\'94 Retana\'92s man said to\
Zurito.\
\
\'93He\'92s good,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
\'93Watch him now.\'94\
\
They watched.\
\
Fuentes was standing with his back against the barrera. Two of the\
cuadrilla were back of him, with their capes ready to flop over the\
fence to distract the bull.\
\
The bull, with his tongue out, his barrel heaving, was watching the\
gypsy. He thought he had him now. Back against the red planks. Only a\
short charge away. The bull watched him.\
\
The gypsy bent back, drew back his arms, the banderillos pointing at the\
bull. He called to the bull, stamped one foot. The bull was suspicious.\
He wanted the man. No more barbs in the shoulder.\
\
Fuentes walked a little closer to the bull. Bent back. Called again.\
Somebody in the crowd shouted a warning.\
\
\'93He\'92s too damn close,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
\'93Watch him,\'94 Retana\'92s man said.\
\
Leaning back, inciting the bull with the banderillos, Fuentes jumped,\
both feet off the ground. As he jumped the bull\'92s tail rose and he\
charged. Fuentes came down on his toes, arms straight out, whole body\
arching forward, and drove the shafts straight down as he swung his body\
clear of the right horn.\
\
The bull crashed into the barrera where the flopping capes had attracted\
his eye as he lost the man.\
\
The gypsy came running along the barrera toward Manuel, taking the\
applause of the crowd. His vest was ripped where he had not quite\
cleared the point of the horn. He was happy about it, showing it to the\
spectators. He made the tour of the ring. Zurito saw him go by, smiling,\
pointing at his vest. He smiled.\
\
Somebody else was planting the last pair of banderillos. Nobody was\
paying any attention.\
\
Retana\'92s man tucked a baton inside the red cloth of a muleta, folded the\
cloth over it, and handed it over the barrera to Manuel. He reached in\
the leather sword-case, took out a sword, and holding it by its leather\
scabbard, reached it over the fence to Manuel. Manuel pulled the blade\
out by the red hilt and the scabbard fell limp.\
\
He looked at Zurito. The big man saw he was sweating.\
\
\'93Now you get him, kid,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
Manuel nodded.\
\
\'93He\'92s in good shape,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
\'93Just like you want him,\'94 Retana\'92s man assured him.\
\
Manuel nodded.\
\
The trumpeter, up under the roof, blew for the final act, and Manuel\
walked across the arena toward where, up in the dark boxes, the\
president must be.\
\
In the front row of seats the substitute bull-fight critic of _El\
Heraldo_ took a long drink of the warm champagne. He had decided it was\
not worth while to write a running story and would write up the corrida\
back in the office. What the hell was it anyway? Only a nocturnal. If he\
missed anything he would get it out of the morning papers. He took\
another drink of the champagne. He had a date at Maxim\'92s at twelve. Who\
were these bull-fighters anyway? Kids and bums. A bunch of bums. He put\
his pad of paper in his pocket and looked over toward Manuel, standing\
very much alone in the ring, gesturing with his hat in a salute toward a\
box he could not see high up in the dark plaza. Out in the ring the bull\
stood quiet, looking at nothing.\
\
\'93I dedicate this bull to you, Mr. President, and to the public of\
Madrid, the most intelligent and generous of the world,\'94 was what Manuel\
was saying. It was a formula. He said it all. It was a little long for\
nocturnal use.\
\
He bowed at the dark, straightened, tossed his hat over his shoulder,\
and, carrying the muleta in his left hand and the sword in his right,\
walked out toward the bull.\
\
Manuel walked toward the bull. The bull looked at him; his eyes were\
quick. Manuel noticed the way the banderillos hung down on his left\
shoulder and the steady sheen of blood from Zurito\'92s pic-ing. He noticed\
the way the bull\'92s feet were. As he walked forward, holding the muleta\
in his left hand and the sword in his right, he watched the bull\'92s feet.\
The bull could not charge without gathering his feet together. Now he\
stood square on them, dully.\
\
Manuel walked toward him, watching his feet. This was all right. He\
could do this. He must work to get the bull\'92s head down, so he could go\
in past the horns and kill him. He did not think about the sword, not\
about killing the bull. He thought about one thing at a time. The coming\
things oppressed him, though. Walking forward, watching the bull\'92s feet,\
he saw successively his eyes, his wet muzzle, and the wide,\
forward-pointing spread of his horns. The bull had light circles about\
his eyes. His eyes watched Manuel. He felt he was going to get this\
little one with the white face.\
\
Standing still now and spreading the red cloth of the muleta with the\
sword, pricking the point into the cloth so that the sword, now held in\
his left hand, spread the red flannel like the jib of a boat, Manuel\
noticed the points of the bull\'92s horns. One of them was splintered from\
banging against the barrera. The other was sharp as a porcupine quill.\
Manuel noticed while spreading the muleta that the white base of the\
horn was stained red. While he noticed these things he did not lose\
sight of the bull\'92s feet. The bull watched Manuel steadily.\
\
He\'92s on the defensive now, Manuel thought. He\'92s reserving himself. I\'92ve\
got to bring him out of that and get his head down. Always get his head\
down. Zurito had his head down once, but he\'92s come back. He\'92ll bleed\
when I start him going and that will bring it down.\
\
Holding the muleta, with the sword in his left hand widening it in front\
of him, he called to the bull.\
\
The bull looked at him.\
\
He leaned back insultingly and shook the wide-spread flannel.\
\
The bull saw the muleta. It was a bright scarlet under the arc-light.\
The bull\'92s legs tightened.\
\
Here he comes. Whoosh! Manuel turned as the bull came and raised the\
muleta so that it passed over the bull\'92s horns and swept down his broad\
back from head to tail. The bull had gone clean up in the air with the\
charge. Manuel had not moved.\
\
At the end of the pass the bull turned like a cat coming around a corner\
and faced Manuel.\
\
He was on the offensive again. His heaviness was gone. Manuel noted the\
fresh blood shining down the black shoulder and dripping down the bull\'92s\
leg. He drew the sword out of the muleta and held it in his right hand.\
The muleta held low down in his left hand, leaning toward the left, he\
called to the bull. The bull\'92s legs tightened, his eyes on the muleta.\
Here he comes, Manuel thought. Yuh!\
\
He swung with the charge, sweeping the muleta ahead of the bull, his\
feet firm, the sword following the curve, a point of light under the\
arcs.\
\
The bull recharged as the pase natural finished and Manuel raised the\
muleta for a pase de pecho. Firmly planted, the bull came by his chest\
under the raised muleta. Manuel leaned his head back to avoid the\
clattering banderillo shafts. The hot, black bull body touched his chest\
as it passed.\
\
Too damn close, Manuel thought. Zurito, leaning on the barrera, spoke\
rapidly to the gypsy, who trotted out toward Manuel with a cape. Zurito\
pulled his hat down low and looked out across the arena at Manuel.\
\
Manuel was facing the bull again, the muleta held low and to the left.\
The bull\'92s head was down as he watched the muleta.\
\
\'93If it was Belmonte doing that stuff, they\'92d go crazy,\'94 Retana\'92s man\
said.\
\
Zurito said nothing. He was watching Manuel out in the centre of the\
arena.\
\
\'93Where did the boss dig this fellow up?\'94 Retana\'92s man asked.\
\
\'93Out of the hospital,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
\'93That\'92s where he\'92s going damn quick,\'94 Retana\'92s man said.\
\
Zurito turned on him.\
\
\'93Knock on that,\'94 he said, pointing to the barrera.\
\
\'93I was just kidding, man,\'94 Retana\'92s man said.\
\
\'93Knock on the wood.\'94\
\
Retana\'92s man leaned forward and knocked three times on the barrera.\
\
\'93Watch the faena,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
Out in the centre of the ring, under the lights, Manuel was kneeling,\
facing the bull, and as he raised the muleta in both hands the bull\
charged, tail up.\
\
Manuel swung his body clear and, as the bull recharged, brought around\
the muleta in a half-circle that pulled the bull to his knees.\
\
\'93Why, that one\'92s a great bull-fighter,\'94 Retana\'92s man said.\
\
\'93No, he\'92s not,\'94 said Zurito.\
\
Manuel stood up and, the muleta in his left hand, the sword in his\
right, acknowledged the applause from the dark plaza.\
\
The bull had humped himself up from his knees and stood waiting, his\
head hung low.\
\
Zurito spoke to two of the other lads of the cuadrilla and they ran out\
to stand back of Manuel with their capes. There were four men back of\
him now. Hernandez had followed him since he first came out with the\
muleta. Fuentes stood watching, his cape held against his body, tall, in\
repose, watching lazy-eyed. Now the two came up. Hernandez motioned them\
to stand one at each side. Manuel stood alone, facing the bull.\
\
Manuel waved back the men with the capes. Stepping back cautiously, they\
saw his face was white and sweating.\
\
Didn\'92t they know enough to keep back? Did they want to catch the bull\'92s\
eye with the capes after he was fixed and ready? He had enough to worry\
about without that kind of thing.\
\
The bull was standing, his four feet square, looking at the muleta.\
Manuel furled the muleta in his left hand. The bull\'92s eyes watched it.\
His body was heavy on his feet. He carried his head low, but not too\
low.\
\
Manuel lifted the muleta at him. The bull did not move. Only his eyes\
watched.\
\
He\'92s all lead, Manuel thought. He\'92s all square. He\'92s framed right. He\'92ll\
take it.\
\
He thought in bull-fight terms. Sometimes he had a thought and the\
particular piece of slang would not come into his mind and he could not\
realize the thought. His instincts and his knowledge worked\
automatically, and his brain worked slowly and in words. He knew all\
about bulls. He did not have to think about them. He just did the right\
thing. His eyes noted things and his body performed the necessary\
measures without thought. If he thought about it, he would be gone.\
\
Now, facing the bull, he was conscious of many things at the same time.\
There were the horns, the one splintered, the other smoothly sharp, the\
need to profile himself toward the left horn, lance himself short and\
straight, lower the muleta so the bull would follow it, and, going in\
over the horns, put the sword all the way into a little spot about as\
big as a five-peseta piece straight in back of the neck, between the\
sharp pitch of the bull\'92s shoulders. He must do all this and must then\
come out from between the horns. He was conscious he must do all this,\
but his only thought was in words: \'93Corto y derecho.\'94\
\
\'93Corto y derecho,\'94 he thought, furling the muleta. Short and straight.\
Corto y derecho, he drew the sword out of the muleta, profiled on the\
splintered left horn, dropped the muleta across his body, so his right\
hand with the sword on the level with his eye made the sign of the\
cross, and, rising on his toes, sighted along the dipping blade of the\
sword at the spot high up between the bull\'92s shoulders.\
\
Corto y derecho he lanced himself on the bull.\
\
There was a shock, and he felt himself go up in the air. He pushed on\
the sword as he went up and over, and it flew out of his hand. He hit\
the ground and the bull was on him. Manuel, lying on the ground, kicked\
at the bull\'92s muzzle with his slippered feet. Kicking, kicking, the bull\
after him, missing him in his excitement, bumping him with his head,\
driving the horns into the sand. Kicking like a man keeping a ball in\
the air, Manuel kept the bull from getting a clean thrust at him.\
\
Manuel felt the wind on his back from the capes flopping at the bull,\
and then the bull was gone, gone over him in a rush. Dark, as his belly\
went over. Not even stepped on.\
\
Manuel stood up and picked up the muleta. Fuentes handed him the sword.\
It was bent where it had struck the shoulder-blade. Manuel straightened\
it on his knee and ran toward the bull, standing now beside one of the\
dead horses. As he ran, his jacket flopped where it had been ripped\
under his armpit.\
\
\'93Get him out of there,\'94 Manuel shouted to the gypsy. The bull had\
smelled the blood of the dead horse and ripped into the canvas-cover\
with his horns. He charged Fuentes\'92s cape, with the canvas hanging from\
his splintered horn, and the crowd laughed. Out in the ring, he tossed\
his head to rid himself of the canvas. Hernandez, running up from behind\
him, grabbed the end of the canvas and neatly lifted it off the horn.\
\
The bull followed it in a half-charge and stopped still. He was on the\
defensive again. Manuel was walking toward him with the sword and\
muleta. Manuel swung the muleta before him. The bull would not charge.\
\
Manuel profiled toward the bull, sighting along the dipping blade of the\
sword. The bull was motionless, seemingly dead on his feet, incapable of\
another charge.\
\
Manuel rose to his toes, sighting along the steel, and charged.\
\
Again there was the shock and he felt himself being borne back in a\
rush, to strike hard on the sand. There was no chance of kicking this\
time. The bull was on top of him. Manuel lay as though dead, his head on\
his arms, and the bull bumped him. Bumped his back, bumped his face in\
the sand. He felt the horn go into the sand between his folded arms. The\
bull hit him in the small of the back. His face drove into the sand. The\
horn drove through one of his sleeves and the bull ripped it off. Manuel\
was tossed clear and the bull followed the capes.\
\
Manuel got up, found the sword and muleta, tried the point of the sword\
with his thumb, and then ran toward the barrera for a new sword.\
\
Retana\'92s man handed him the sword over the edge of the barrera.\
\
\'93Wipe off your face,\'94 he said.\
\
Manuel, running again toward the bull, wiped his bloody face with his\
handkerchief. He had not seen Zurito. Where was Zurito?\
\
The cuadrilla had stepped away from the bull and waited with their\
capes. The bull stood, heavy and dull again after the action.\
\
Manuel walked toward him with the muleta. He stopped and shook it. The\
bull did not respond. He passed it right and left, left and right before\
the bull\'92s muzzle. The bull\'92s eyes watched it and turned with the swing,\
but he would not charge. He was waiting for Manuel.\
\
Manuel was worried. There was nothing to do but go in. Corto y derecho.\
He profiled close to the bull, crossed the muleta in front of his body\
and charged. As he pushed in the sword, he jerked his body to the left\
to clear the horn. The bull passed him and the sword shot up in the air,\
twinkling under the arc-lights, to fall red-hilted on the sand.\
\
Manuel ran over and picked it up. It was bent and he straightened it\
over his knee.\
\
As he came running toward the bull, fixed again now, he passed Hernandez\
standing with his cape.\
\
\'93He\'92s all bone,\'94 the boy said encouragingly.\
\
Manuel nodded, wiping his face. He put the bloody handkerchief in his\
pocket.\
\
There was the bull. He was close to the barrera now. Damn him. Maybe he\
was all bone. Maybe there was not any place for the sword to go in. The\
hell there wasn\'92t! He\'92d show them.\
\
He tried a pass with the muleta and the bull did not move. Manuel\
chopped the muleta back and forth in front of the bull. Nothing doing.\
\
He furled the muleta, drew the sword out, profiled and drove in on the\
bull. He felt the sword buckle as he shoved it in, leaning his weight on\
it, and then it shot high in the air, end-over-ending into the crowd.\
Manuel had jerked clear as the sword jumped.\
\
The first cushions thrown down out of the dark missed him. Then one hit\
him in the face, his bloody face looking toward the crowd. They were\
coming down fast. Spotting the sand. Somebody threw an empty\
champagne-bottle from close range. It hit Manuel on the foot. He stood\
there watching the dark, where the things were coming from. Then\
something whished through the air and struck by him. Manuel leaned over\
and picked it up. It was his sword. He straightened it over his knee and\
gestured with it to the crowd.\
\
\'93Thank you,\'94 he said. \'93Thank you.\'94\
\
Oh, the dirty bastards! Dirty bastards! Oh, the lousy, dirty bastards!\
He kicked into a cushion as he ran.\
\
There was the bull. The same as ever. All right, you dirty, lousy\
bastard!\
\
Manuel passed the muleta in front of the bull\'92s black muzzle.\
\
Nothing doing.\
\
You won\'92t! All right. He stepped close and jammed the sharp peak of the\
muleta into the bull\'92s damp muzzle.\
\
The bull was on him as he jumped back and as he tripped on a cushion he\
felt the horn go into him, into his side. He grabbed the horn with his\
two hands and rode backward, holding tight onto the place. The bull\
tossed him and he was clear. He lay still. It was all right. The bull\
was gone.\
\
He got up coughing and feeling broken and gone. The dirty bastards!\
\
\'93Give me the sword,\'94 he shouted. \'93Give me the stuff.\'94\
\
Fuentes came up with the muleta and the sword.\
\
Hernandez put his arm around him.\
\
\'93Go on to the infirmary, man,\'94 he said. \'93Don\'92t be a damn fool.\'94\
\
\'93Get away from me,\'94 Manuel said. \'93Get to hell away from me.\'94\
\
He twisted free. Hernandez shrugged his shoulders. Manuel ran toward the\
bull.\
\
There was the bull standing, heavy, firmly planted.\
\
All right, you bastard! Manuel drew the sword out of the muleta, sighted\
with the same movement, and flung himself onto the bull. He felt the\
sword go in all the way. Right up to the guard. Four fingers and his\
thumb into the bull. The blood was hot on his knuckles, and he was on\
top of the bull.\
\
The bull lurched with him as he lay on, and seemed to sink; then he was\
standing clear. He looked at the bull going down slowly over on his\
side, then suddenly four feet in the air.\
\
Then he gestured at the crowd, his hand warm from the bull blood.\
\
All right, you bastards! He wanted to say something, but he started to\
cough. It was hot and choking. He looked down for the muleta. He must go\
over and salute the president. President hell! He was sitting down\
looking at something. It was the bull. His four feet up. Thick tongue\
out. Things crawling around on his belly and under his legs. Crawling\
where the hair was thin. Dead bull. To hell with the bull! To hell with\
them all! He started to get to his feet and commenced to cough. He sat\
down again, coughing. Somebody came and pushed him up.\
\
They carried him across the ring to the infirmary, running with him\
across the sand, standing blocked at the gate as the mules came in, then\
around under the dark passageway, men grunting as they took him up the\
stairway, and then laid him down.\
\
The doctor and two men in white were waiting for him. They laid him out\
on the table. They were cutting away his shirt. Manuel felt tired. His\
whole chest felt scalding inside. He started to cough and they held\
something to his mouth. Everybody was very busy.\
\
There was an electric light in his eyes. He shut his eyes.\
\
He heard some one coming very heavily up the stairs. Then he did not\
hear it. Then he heard a noise far off. That was the crowd. Well,\
somebody would have to kill his other bull. They had cut away all his\
shirt. The doctor smiled at him. There was Retana.\
\
\'93Hello, Retana!\'94 Manuel said. He could not hear his voice.\
\
Retana smiled at him and said something. Manuel could not hear it.\
\
Zurito stood beside the table, bending over where the doctor was\
working. He was in his picador clothes, without his hat.\
\
Zurito said something to him. Manuel could not hear it.\
\
Zurito was speaking to Retana. One of the men in white smiled and handed\
Retana a pair of scissors. Retana gave them to Zurito. Zurito said\
something to Manuel. He could not hear it.\
\
To hell with this operating-table! He\'92d been on plenty of\
operating-tables before. He was not going to die. There would be a\
priest if he was going to die.\
\
Zurito was saying something to him. Holding up the scissors.\
\
That was it. They were going to cut off his coleta. They were going to\
cut off his pigtail.\
\
Manuel sat up on the operating-table. The doctor stepped back, angry.\
Some one grabbed him and held him.\
\
\'93You couldn\'92t do a thing like that, Manos,\'94 he said.\
\
He heard suddenly, clearly, Zurito\'92s voice.\
\
\'93That\'92s all right,\'94 Zurito said. \'93I won\'92t do it. I was joking.\'94\
\
\'93I was going good,\'94 Manuel said. \'93I didn\'92t have any luck. That was all.\'94\
\
Manuel lay back. They had put something over his face. It was all\
familiar. He inhaled deeply. He felt very tired. He was very, very\
tired. They took the thing away from his face.\
\
\'93I was going good,\'94 Manuel said weakly. \'93I was going great.\'94\
\
Retana looked at Zurito and started for the door.\
\
\'93I\'92ll stay here with him,\'94 Zurito said.\
\
Retana shrugged his shoulders.\
\
Manuel opened his eyes and looked at Zurito.\
\
\'93Wasn\'92t I going good, Manos?\'94 he asked, for confirmation.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Zurito. \'93You were going great.\'94\
\
The doctor\'92s assistant put the cone over Manuel\'92s face and he inhaled\
deeply. Zurito stood awkwardly, watching.\
\
\
\
\
                           IN ANOTHER COUNTRY\
\
\
IN the fall the war was always there, but we did not go to it any more.\
It was cold in the fall in Milan and the dark came very early. Then the\
electric lights came on, and it was pleasant along the streets looking\
in the windows. There was much game hanging outside the shops, and the\
snow powdered in the fur of the foxes and the wind blew their tails. The\
deer hung stiff and heavy and empty, and small birds blew in the wind\
and the wind turned their feathers. It was a cold fall and the wind came\
down from the mountains.\
\
We were all at the hospital every afternoon, and there were different\
ways of walking across the town through the dusk to the hospital. Two of\
the ways were alongside canals, but they were long. Always, though, you\
crossed a bridge across a canal to enter the hospital. There was a\
choice of three bridges. On one of them a woman sold roasted chestnuts.\
It was warm, standing in front of her charcoal fire, and the chestnuts\
were warm afterward in your pocket. The hospital was very old and very\
beautiful, and you entered through a gate and walked across a courtyard\
and out a gate on the other side. There were usually funerals starting\
from the courtyard. Beyond the old hospital were the new brick\
pavilions, and there we met every afternoon and were all very polite and\
interested in what was the matter, and sat in the machines that were to\
make so much difference.\
\
The doctor came up to the machine where I was sitting and said: \'93What\
did you like best to do before the war? Did you practise a sport?\'94\
\
I said: \'93Yes, football.\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 he said. \'93You will be able to play football again better than\
ever.\'94\
\
My knee did not bend and the leg dropped straight from the knee to the\
ankle without a calf, and the machine was to bend the knee and make it\
move as in riding a tricycle. But it did not bend yet, and instead the\
machine lurched when it came to the bending part. The doctor said: \'93That\
will all pass. You are a fortunate young man. You will play football\
again like a champion.\'94\
\
In the next machine was a major who had a little hand like a baby\'92s. He\
winked at me when the doctor examined his hand, which was between two\
leather straps that bounced up and down and flapped the stiff fingers,\
and said: \'93And will I too play football, captain-doctor?\'94 He had been a\
very great fencer, and before the war the greatest fencer in Italy.\
\
The doctor went to his office in a back room and brought a photograph\
which showed a hand that had been withered almost as small as the\
major\'92s, before it had taken a machine course, and after was a little\
larger. The major held the photograph with his good hand and looked at\
it very carefully. \'93A wound?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93An industrial accident,\'94 the doctor said.\
\
\'93Very interesting, very interesting,\'94 the major said, and handed it back\
to the doctor.\
\
\'93You have confidence?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said the major.\
\
There were three boys who came each day who were about the same age I\
was. They were all three from Milan, and one of them was to be a lawyer,\
and one was to be a painter, and one had intended to be a soldier, and\
after we were finished with the machines, sometimes we walked back\
together to the Caf\'e9 Cova, which was next door to the Scala. We walked\
the short way through the communist quarter because we were four\
together. The people hated us because we were officers, and from a\
wine-shop some one would call out, \'93A basso gli ufficiali!\'94 as we\
passed. Another boy who walked with us sometimes and made us five wore a\
black silk handkerchief across his face because he had no nose then and\
his face was to be rebuilt. He had gone out to the front from the\
military academy and been wounded within an hour after he had gone into\
the front line for the first time. They rebuilt his face, but he came\
from a very old family and they could never get the nose exactly right.\
He went to South America and worked in a bank. But this was a long time\
ago, and then we did not any of us know how it was going to be\
afterward. We only knew then that there was always the war, but that we\
were not going to it any more.\
\
We all had the same medals, except the boy with the black silk bandage\
across his face, and he had not been at the front long enough to get any\
medals. The tall boy with a very pale face who was to be a lawyer had\
been a lieutenant of Arditi and had three medals of the sort we each had\
only one of. He had lived a very long time with death and was a little\
detached. We were all a little detached, and there was nothing that held\
us together except that we met every afternoon at the hospital.\
Although, as we walked to the Cova through the tough part of town,\
walking in the dark, with light and singing coming out of the\
wine-shops, and sometimes having to walk into the street when the men\
and women would crowd together on the sidewalk so that we would have had\
to jostle them to get by, we felt held together by there being something\
that had happened that they, the people who disliked us, did not\
understand.\
\
We ourselves all understood the Cova, where it was rich and warm and not\
too brightly lighted, and noisy and smoky at certain hours, and there\
were always girls at the tables and the illustrated papers on a rack on\
the wall. The girls at the Cova were very patriotic, and I found that\
the most patriotic people in Italy were the caf\'e9 girls\'97and I believe\
they are still patriotic.\
\
The boys at first were very polite about my medals and asked me what I\
had done to get them. I showed them the papers, which were written in\
very beautiful language and full of _fratellanza_ and _abnegazione_, but\
which really said, with the adjectives removed, that I had been given\
the medals because I was an American. After that their manner changed a\
little toward me, although I was their friend against outsiders. I was a\
friend, but I was never really one of them after they had read the\
citations, because it had been different with them and they had done\
very different things to get their medals. I had been wounded, it was\
true; but we all knew that being wounded, after all, was really an\
accident. I was never ashamed of the ribbons, though, and sometimes,\
after the cocktail hour, I would imagine myself having done all the\
things they had done to get their medals; but walking home at night\
through the empty streets with the cold wind and all the shops closed,\
trying to keep near the street lights, I knew that I would never have\
done such things, and I was very much afraid to die, and often lay in\
bed at night by myself, afraid to die and wondering how I would be when\
I went back to the front again.\
\
The three with the medals were like hunting-hawks; and I was not a hawk,\
although I might seem a hawk to those who had never hunted; they, the\
three, knew better and so we drifted apart. But I stayed good friends\
with the boy who had been wounded his first day at the front, because he\
would never know now how he would have turned out; so he could never be\
accepted either, and I liked him because I thought perhaps he would not\
have turned out to be a hawk either.\
\
The major, who had been the great fencer, did not believe in bravery,\
and spent much time while we sat in the machines correcting my grammar.\
He had complimented me on how I spoke Italian, and we talked together\
very easily. One day I had said that Italian seemed such an easy\
language to me that I could not take a great interest in it; everything\
was so easy to say. \'93Ah, yes,\'94 the major said. \'93Why, then, do you not\
take up the use of grammar?\'94 So we took up the use of grammar, and soon\
Italian was such a difficult language that I was afraid to talk to him\
until I had the grammar straight in my mind.\
\
The major came very regularly to the hospital. I do not think he ever\
missed a day, although I am sure he did not believe in the machines.\
There was a time when none of us believed in the machines, and one day\
the major said it was all nonsense. The machines were new then and it\
was we who were to prove them. It was an idiotic idea, he said, \'93a\
theory, like another.\'94 I had not learned my grammar, and he said I was a\
stupid impossible disgrace, and he was a fool to have bothered with me.\
He was a small man and he sat straight up in his chair with his right\
hand thrust into the machine and looked straight ahead at the wall while\
the straps thumped up and down with his fingers in them.\
\
\'93What will you do when the war is over if it is over?\'94 he asked me.\
\'93Speak grammatically!\'94\
\
\'93I will go to the States.\'94\
\
\'93Are you married?\'94\
\
\'93No, but I hope to be.\'94\
\
\'93The more of a fool you are,\'94 he said. He seemed very angry. \'93A man must\
not marry.\'94\
\
\'93Why, Signor Maggiore?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t call me \'91Signor Maggiore.\'92\'94\
\
\'93Why must not a man marry?\'94\
\
\'93He cannot marry. He cannot marry,\'94 he said angrily. \'93If he is to lose\
everything, he should not place himself in a position to lose that. He\
should not place himself in a position to lose. He should find things he\
cannot lose.\'94\
\
He spoke very angrily and bitterly, and looked straight ahead while he\
talked.\
\
\'93But why should he necessarily lose it?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92ll lose it,\'94 the major said. He was looking at the wall. Then he\
looked down at the machine and jerked his little hand out from between\
the straps and slapped it hard against his thigh. \'93He\'92ll lose it,\'94 he\
almost shouted. \'93Don\'92t argue with me!\'94 Then he called to the attendant\
who ran the machines. \'93Come and turn this damned thing off.\'94\
\
He went back into the other room for the light treatment and the\
massage. Then I heard him ask the doctor if he might use his telephone\
and he shut the door. When he came back into the room, I was sitting in\
another machine. He was wearing his cape and had his cap on, and he came\
directly toward my machine and put his arm on my shoulder.\
\
\'93I am so sorry,\'94 he said, and patted me on the shoulder with his good\
hand. \'93I would not be rude. My wife has just died. You must forgive me.\'94\
\
\'93Oh\'97\'94 I said, feeling sick for him. \'93I am _so_ sorry.\'94\
\
He stood there biting his lower lip. \'93It is very difficult,\'94 he said. \'93I\
cannot resign myself.\'94\
\
He looked straight past me and out through the window. Then he began to\
cry. \'93I am utterly unable to resign myself,\'94 he said and choked. And\
then crying, his head up looking at nothing, carrying himself straight\
and soldierly, with tears on both his cheeks and biting his lips, he\
walked past the machines and out the door.\
\
The doctor told me that the major\'92s wife, who was very young and whom he\
had not married until he was definitely invalided out of the war, had\
died of pneumonia. She had been sick only a few days. No one expected\
her to die. The major did not come to the hospital for three days. Then\
he came at the usual hour, wearing a black band on the sleeve of his\
uniform. When he came back, there were large framed photographs around\
the wall, of all sorts of wounds before and after they had been cured by\
the machines. In front of the machine the major used were three\
photographs of hands like his that were completely restored. I do not\
know where the doctor got them. I always understood we were the first to\
use the machines. The photographs did not make much difference to the\
major because he only looked out of the window.\
\
\
\
\
                       HILLS LIKE WHITE ELEPHANTS\
\
\
THE hills across the valley of the Ebro were long and white. On this\
side there was no shade and no trees and the station was between two\
lines of rails in the sun. Close against the side of the station there\
was the warm shadow of the building and a curtain, made of strings of\
bamboo beads, hung across the open door into the bar, to keep out flies.\
The American and the girl with him sat at a table in the shade, outside\
the building. It was very hot and the express from Barcelona would come\
in forty minutes. It stopped at this junction for two minutes and went\
on to Madrid.\
\
\'93What should we drink?\'94 the girl asked. She had taken off her hat and\
put it on the table.\
\
\'93It\'92s pretty hot,\'94 the man said.\
\
\'93Let\'92s drink beer.\'94\
\
\'93Dos cervezas,\'94 the man said into the curtain.\
\
\'93Big ones?\'94 a woman asked from the doorway.\
\
\'93Yes. Two big ones.\'94\
\
The woman brought two glasses of beer and two felt pads. She put the\
felt pads and the beer glasses on the table and looked at the man and\
the girl. The girl was looking off at the line of hills. They were white\
in the sun and the country was brown and dry.\
\
\'93They look like white elephants,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93I\'92ve never seen one,\'94 the man drank his beer.\
\
\'93No, you wouldn\'92t have.\'94\
\
\'93I might have,\'94 the man said. \'93Just because you say I wouldn\'92t have\
doesn\'92t prove anything.\'94\
\
The girl looked at the bead curtain. \'93They\'92ve painted something on it,\'94\
she said. \'93What does it say?\'94\
\
\'93Anis del Toro. It\'92s a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Could we try it?\'94\
\
The man called \'93Listen\'94 through the curtain. The woman came out from the\
bar.\
\
\'93Four reales.\'94\
\
\'93We want two Anis del Toro.\'94\
\
\'93With water?\'94\
\
\'93Do you want it with water?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 the girl said. \'93Is it good with water?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right.\'94\
\
\'93You want them with water?\'94 asked the woman.\
\
\'93Yes, with water.\'94\
\
\'93It tastes like licorice,\'94 the girl said and put the glass down.\
\
\'93That\'92s the way with everything.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said the girl. \'93Everything tastes of licorice. Especially all the\
things you\'92ve waited so long for, like absinthe.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, cut it out.\'94\
\
\'93You started it,\'94 the girl said. \'93I was being amused. I was having a\
fine time.\'94\
\
\'93Well, let\'92s try and have a fine time.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I was trying. I said the mountains looked like white\
elephants. Wasn\'92t that bright?\'94\
\
\'93That was bright.\'94\
\
\'93I wanted to try this new drink. That\'92s all we do, isn\'92t it\'97look at\
things and try new drinks?\'94\
\
\'93I guess so.\'94\
\
The girl looked across at the hills.\
\
\'93They\'92re lovely hills,\'94 she said. \'93They don\'92t really look like white\
elephants. I just meant the coloring of their skin through the trees.\'94\
\
\'93Should we have another drink?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
The warm wind blew the bead curtain against the table.\
\
\'93The beer\'92s nice and cool,\'94 the man said.\
\
\'93It\'92s lovely,\'94 the girl said.\
\
\'93It\'92s really an awfully simple operation, Jig,\'94 the man said. \'93It\'92s not\
really an operation at all.\'94\
\
The girl looked at the ground the table legs rested on.\
\
\'93I know you wouldn\'92t mind it, Jig. It\'92s really not anything. It\'92s just\
to let the air in.\'94\
\
The girl did not say anything.\
\
\'93I\'92ll go with you and I\'92ll stay with you all the time. They just let the\
air in and then it\'92s all perfectly natural.\'94\
\
\'93Then what will we do afterward?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll be fine afterward. Just like we were before.\'94\
\
\'93What makes you think so?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the only thing that bothers us. It\'92s the only thing that\'92s made\
us unhappy.\'94\
\
The girl looked at the bead curtain, put her hand out and took hold of\
two of the strings of beads.\
\
\'93And you think then we\'92ll be all right and be happy.\'94\
\
\'93I know we will. You don\'92t have to be afraid. I\'92ve known lots of people\
that have done it.\'94\
\
\'93So have I,\'94 said the girl. \'93And afterward they were all so happy.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 the man said, \'93if you don\'92t want to you don\'92t have to. I\
wouldn\'92t have you do it if you didn\'92t want to. But I know it\'92s perfectly\
simple.\'94\
\
\'93And you really want to?\'94\
\
\'93I think it\'92s the best thing to do. But I don\'92t want you to do it if you\
don\'92t really want to.\'94\
\
\'93And if I do it you\'92ll be happy and things will be like they were and\
you\'92ll love me?\'94\
\
\'93I love you now. You know I love you.\'94\
\
\'93I know. But if I do it, then it will be nice again if I say things are\
like white elephants, and you\'92ll like it?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll love it. I love it now but I just can\'92t think about it. You know\
how I get when I worry.\'94\
\
\'93If I do it you won\'92t ever worry?\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t worry about that because it\'92s perfectly simple.\'94\
\
\'93Then I\'92ll do it. Because I don\'92t care about me.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t care about me.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I care about you.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. But I don\'92t care about me. And I\'92ll do it and then everything\
will be fine.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want you to do it if you feel that way.\'94\
\
The girl stood up and walked to the end of the station. Across, on the\
other side, were fields of grain and trees along the banks of the Ebro.\
Far away, beyond the river, were mountains. The shadow of a cloud moved\
across the field of grain and she saw the river through the trees.\
\
\'93And we could have all this,\'94 she said. \'93And we could have everything\
and every day we make it more impossible.\'94\
\
\'93What did you say?\'94\
\
\'93I said we could have everything.\'94\
\
\'93We can have everything.\'94\
\
\'93No, we can\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93We can have the whole world.\'94\
\
\'93No, we can\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93We can go everywhere.\'94\
\
\'93No, we can\'92t. It isn\'92t ours any more.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s ours.\'94\
\
\'93No, it isn\'92t. And once they take it away, you never get it back.\'94\
\
\'93But they haven\'92t taken it away.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll wait and see.\'94\
\
\'93Come on back in the shade,\'94 he said. \'93You mustn\'92t feel that way.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t feel any way,\'94 the girl said. \'93I just know things.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want you to do anything that you don\'92t want to do\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93Nor that isn\'92t good for me,\'94 she said. \'93I know. Could we have another\
beer?\'94\
\
\'93All right. But you\'92ve got to realize\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93I realize,\'94 the girl said. \'93Can\'92t we maybe stop talking?\'94\
\
They sat down at the table and the girl looked across at the hills on\
the dry side of the valley and the man looked at her and at the table.\
\
\'93You\'92ve got to realize,\'94 he said, \'93that I don\'92t want you to do it if you\
don\'92t want to. I\'92m perfectly willing to go through with it if it means\
anything to you.\'94\
\
\'93Doesn\'92t it mean anything to you? We could get along.\'94\
\
\'93Of course it does. But I don\'92t want anybody but you. I don\'92t want any\
one else. And I know it\'92s perfectly simple.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, you know it\'92s perfectly simple.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right for you to say that, but I do know it.\'94\
\
\'93Would you do something for me now?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d do anything for you.\'94\
\
\'93Would you please please please please please please please stop\
talking?\'94\
\
He did not say anything but looked at the bags against the wall of the\
station. There were labels on them from all the hotels where they had\
spent nights.\
\
\'93But I don\'92t want you to,\'94 he said, \'93I don\'92t care anything about it.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll scream,\'94 the girl said.\
\
The woman came out through the curtains with two glasses of beer and put\
them down on the damp felt pads. \'93The train comes in five minutes,\'94 she\
said.\
\
\'93What did she say?\'94 asked the girl.\
\
\'93That the train is coming in five minutes.\'94\
\
The girl smiled brightly at the woman, to thank her.\
\
\'93I\'92d better take the bags over to the other side of the station,\'94 the\
man said. She smiled at him.\
\
\'93All right. Then come back and we\'92ll finish the beer.\'94\
\
He picked up the two heavy bags and carried them around the station to\
the other tracks. He looked up the tracks but could not see the train.\
Coming back, he walked through the barroom, where people waiting for the\
train were drinking. He drank an Anis at the bar and looked at the\
people. They were all waiting reasonably for the train. He went out\
through the bead curtain. She was sitting at the table and smiled at\
him.\
\
\'93Do you feel better?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93I feel fine,\'94 she said. \'93There\'92s nothing wrong with me. I feel fine.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                              THE KILLERS\
\
\
THE door of Henry\'92s lunch-room opened and two men came in. They sat down\
at the counter.\
\
\'93What\'92s yours?\'94 George asked them.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 one of the men said. \'93What do you want to eat, Al?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 said Al. \'93I don\'92t know what I want to eat.\'94\
\
Outside it was getting dark. The street-light came on outside the\
window. The two men at the counter read the menu. From the other end of\
the counter Nick Adams watched them. He had been talking to George when\
they came in.\
\
\'93I\'92ll have a roast pork tenderloin with apple sauce and mashed\
potatoes,\'94 the first man said.\
\
\'93It isn\'92t ready yet.\'94\
\
\'93What the hell do you put it on the card for?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the dinner,\'94 George explained. \'93You can get that at six\
o\'92clock.\'94\
\
George looked at the clock on the wall behind the counter.\
\
\'93It\'92s five o\'92clock.\'94\
\
\'93The clock says twenty minutes past five,\'94 the second man said.\
\
\'93It\'92s twenty minutes fast.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, to hell with the clock,\'94 the first man said. \'93What have you got to\
eat?\'94\
\
\'93I can give you any kind of sandwiches,\'94 George said. \'93You can have ham\
and eggs, bacon and eggs, liver and bacon, or a steak.\'94\
\
\'93Give me chicken croquettes with green peas and cream sauce and mashed\
potatoes.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the dinner.\'94\
\
\'93Everything we want\'92s the dinner, eh? That\'92s the way you work it.\'94\
\
\'93I can give you ham and eggs, bacon and eggs, liver\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll take ham and eggs,\'94 the man called Al said. He wore a derby hat\
and a black overcoat buttoned across the chest. His face was small and\
white and he had tight lips. He wore a silk muffler and gloves.\
\
\'93Give me bacon and eggs,\'94 said the other man. He was about the same size\
as Al. Their faces were different, but they were dressed like twins.\
Both wore overcoats too tight for them. They sat leaning forward, their\
elbows on the counter.\
\
\'93Got anything to drink?\'94 Al asked.\
\
\'93Silver beer, bevo, ginger-ale,\'94 George said.\
\
\'93I mean you got anything to _drink_?\'94\
\
\'93Just those I said.\'94\
\
\'93This is a hot town,\'94 said the other. \'93What do they call it?\'94\
\
\'93Summit.\'94\
\
\'93Ever hear of it?\'94 Al asked his friend.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said the friend.\
\
\'93What do you do here nights?\'94 Al asked.\
\
\'93They eat the dinner,\'94 his friend said. \'93They all come here and eat the\
big dinner.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s right,\'94 George said.\
\
\'93So you think that\'92s right?\'94 Al asked George.\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a pretty bright boy, aren\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said George.\
\
\'93Well, you\'92re not,\'94 said the other little man. \'93Is he, Al?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s dumb,\'94 said Al. He turned to Nick. \'93What\'92s your name?\'94\
\
\'93Adams.\'94\
\
\'93Another bright boy,\'94 Al said. \'93Ain\'92t he a bright boy, Max?\'94\
\
\'93The town\'92s full of bright boys,\'94 Max said.\
\
George put the two platters, one of ham and eggs, the other of bacon and\
eggs, on the counter. He set down two side-dishes of fried potatoes and\
closed the wicket into the kitchen.\
\
\'93Which is yours?\'94 he asked Al.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you remember?\'94\
\
\'93Ham and eggs.\'94\
\
\'93Just a bright boy,\'94 Max said. He leaned forward and took the ham and\
eggs. Both men ate with their gloves on. George watched them eat.\
\
\'93What are _you_ looking at?\'94 Max looked at George.\
\
\'93Nothing.\'94\
\
\'93The hell you were. You were looking at me.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe the boy meant it for a joke, Max,\'94 Al said.\
\
George laughed.\
\
\'93_You_ don\'92t have to laugh,\'94 Max said to him. \'93_You_ don\'92t have to laugh\
at all, see?\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 said George.\
\
\'93So he thinks it\'92s all right.\'94 Max turned to Al. \'93He thinks it\'92s all\
right. That\'92s a good one.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, he\'92s a thinker,\'94 Al said. They went on eating.\
\
\'93What\'92s the bright boy\'92s name down the counter?\'94 Al asked Max.\
\
\'93Hey, bright boy,\'94 Max said to Nick. \'93You go around on the other side of\
the counter with your boy friend.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the idea?\'94 Nick asked.\
\
\'93There isn\'92t any idea.\'94\
\
\'93You better go around, bright boy,\'94 Al said. Nick went around behind the\
counter.\
\
\'93What\'92s the idea?\'94 George asked.\
\
\'93None of your damn business,\'94 Al said. \'93Who\'92s out in the kitchen?\'94\
\
\'93The nigger.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean the nigger?\'94\
\
\'93The nigger that cooks.\'94\
\
\'93Tell him to come in.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the idea?\'94\
\
\'93Tell him to come in.\'94\
\
\'93Where do you think you are?\'94\
\
\'93We know damn well where we are,\'94 the man called Max said. \'93Do we look\
silly?\'94\
\
\'93You talk silly,\'94 Al said to him. \'93What the hell do you argue with this\
kid for? Listen,\'94 he said to George, \'93tell the nigger to come out here.\'94\
\
\'93What are you going to do to him?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing. Use your head, bright boy. What would we do to a nigger?\'94\
\
George opened the slit that opened back into the kitchen. \'93Sam,\'94 he\
called. \'93Come in here a minute.\'94\
\
The door to the kitchen opened and the nigger came in. \'93What was it?\'94 he\
asked. The two men at the counter took a look at him.\
\
\'93All right, nigger. You stand right there,\'94 Al said.\
\
Sam, the nigger, standing in his apron, looked at the two men sitting at\
the counter. \'93Yes, sir,\'94 he said. Al got down from his stool.\
\
\'93I\'92m going back to the kitchen with the nigger and bright boy,\'94 he said.\
\'93Go on back to the kitchen, nigger. You go with him, bright boy.\'94 The\
little man walked after Nick and Sam, the cook, back into the kitchen.\
The door shut after them. The man called Max sat at the counter opposite\
George. He didn\'92t look at George but looked in the mirror that ran along\
back of the counter. Henry\'92s had been made over from a saloon into a\
lunch-counter.\
\
\'93Well, bright boy,\'94 Max said, looking into the mirror, \'93why don\'92t you\
say something?\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s it all about?\'94\
\
\'93Hey, Al,\'94 Max called, \'93bright boy wants to know what it\'92s all about.\'94\
\
\'93Why don\'92t you tell him?\'94 Al\'92s voice came from the kitchen.\
\
\'93What do you think it\'92s all about?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93What do you think?\'94\
\
Max looked into the mirror all the time he was talking.\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t say.\'94\
\
\'93Hey, Al, bright boy says he wouldn\'92t say what he thinks it\'92s all\
about.\'94\
\
\'93I can hear you, all right,\'94 Al said from the kitchen. He had propped\
open the slit that dishes passed through into the kitchen with a catsup\
bottle. \'93Listen, bright boy,\'94 he said from the kitchen to George. \'93Stand\
a little further along the bar. You move a little to the left, Max.\'94 He\
was like a photographer arranging for a group picture.\
\
\'93Talk to me, bright boy,\'94 Max said. \'93What do you think\'92s going to\
happen?\'94\
\
George did not say anything.\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you,\'94 Max said. \'93We\'92re going to kill a Swede. Do you know a\
big Swede named Ole Andreson?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93He comes here to eat every night, don\'92t he?\'94\
\
\'93Sometimes he comes here.\'94\
\
\'93He comes here at six o\'92clock, don\'92t he?\'94\
\
\'93If he comes.\'94\
\
\'93We know all that, bright boy,\'94 Max said. \'93Talk about something else.\
Ever go to the movies?\'94\
\
\'93Once in a while.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to go to the movies more. The movies are fine for a bright\
boy like you.\'94\
\
\'93What are you going to kill Ole Andreson for? What did he ever do to\
you?\'94\
\
\'93He never had a chance to do anything to us. He never even seen us.\'94\
\
\'93And he\'92s only going to see us once,\'94 Al said from the kitchen.\
\
\'93What are you going to kill him for, then?\'94 George asked.\
\
\'93We\'92re killing him for a friend. Just to oblige a friend, bright boy.\'94\
\
\'93Shut up,\'94 said Al from the kitchen. \'93You talk too goddam much.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I got to keep bright boy amused. Don\'92t I, bright boy?\'94\
\
\'93You talk too damn much,\'94 Al said. \'93The nigger and my bright boy are\
amused by themselves. I got them tied up like a couple of girl friends\
in the convent.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose you were in a convent.\'94\
\
\'93You never know.\'94\
\
\'93You were in a kosher convent. That\'92s where you were.\'94\
\
George looked up at the clock.\
\
\'93If anybody comes in you tell them the cook is off, and if they keep\
after it, you tell them you\'92ll go back and cook yourself. Do you get\
that, bright boy?\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 George said. \'93What you going to do with us afterward?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92ll depend,\'94 Max said. \'93That\'92s one of those things you never know\
at the time.\'94\
\
George looked up at the clock. It was a quarter past six. The door from\
the street opened. A street-car motorman came in.\
\
\'93Hello, George,\'94 he said. \'93Can I get supper?\'94\
\
\'93Sam\'92s gone out,\'94 George said. \'93He\'92ll be back in about half an hour.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d better go up the street,\'94 the motorman said. George looked at the\
clock. It was twenty minutes past six.\
\
\'93That was nice, bright boy,\'94 Max said. \'93You\'92re a regular little\
gentleman.\'94\
\
\'93He knew I\'92d blow his head off,\'94 Al said from the kitchen.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Max. \'93It ain\'92t that. Bright boy is nice. He\'92s a nice boy. I\
like him.\'94\
\
At six-fifty-five George said: \'93He\'92s not coming.\'94\
\
Two other people had been in the lunch-room. Once George had gone out to\
the kitchen and made a ham-and-egg sandwich \'93to go\'94 that a man wanted to\
take with him. Inside the kitchen he saw Al, his derby hat tipped back,\
sitting on a stool beside the wicket with the muzzle of a sawed-off\
shotgun resting on the ledge. Nick and the cook were back to back in the\
corner, a towel tied in each of their mouths. George had cooked the\
sandwich, wrapped it up in oiled paper, put it in a bag, brought it in,\
and the man had paid for it and gone out.\
\
\'93Bright boy can do everything,\'94 Max said. \'93He can cook and everything.\
You\'92d make some girl a nice wife, bright boy.\'94\
\
\'93Yes?\'94 George said. \'93Your friend, Ole Andreson, isn\'92t going to come.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll give him ten minutes,\'94 Max said.\
\
Max watched the mirror and the clock. The hands of the clock marked\
seven o\'92clock, and then five minutes past seven.\
\
\'93Come on, Al,\'94 said Max. \'93We better go. He\'92s not coming.\'94\
\
\'93Better give him five minutes,\'94 Al said from the kitchen.\
\
In the five minutes a man came in, and George explained that the cook\
was sick.\
\
\'93Why the hell don\'92t you get another cook?\'94 the man asked. \'93Aren\'92t you\
running a lunch-counter?\'94 He went out.\
\
\'93Come on, Al,\'94 Max said.\
\
\'93What about the two bright boys and the nigger?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re all right.\'94\
\
\'93You think so?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. We\'92re through with it.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t like it,\'94 said Al. \'93It\'92s sloppy. You talk too much.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, what the hell,\'94 said Max. \'93We got to keep amused, haven\'92t we?\'94\
\
\'93You talk too much, all the same,\'94 Al said. He came out from the\
kitchen. The cut-off barrels of the shotgun made a slight bulge under\
the waist of his too tight-fitting overcoat. He straightened his coat\
with his gloved hands.\
\
\'93So long, bright boy,\'94 he said to George. \'93You got a lot of luck.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the truth,\'94 Max said. \'93You ought to play the races, bright boy.\'94\
\
The two of them went out the door. George watched them, through the\
window, pass under the arc-light and cross the street. In their tight\
overcoats and derby hats they looked like a vaudeville team. George went\
back through the swinging-door into the kitchen and untied Nick and the\
cook.\
\
\'93I don\'92t want any more of that,\'94 said Sam, the cook. \'93I don\'92t want any\
more of that.\'94\
\
Nick stood up. He had never had a towel in his mouth before.\
\
\'93Say,\'94 he said. \'93What the hell?\'94 He was trying to swagger it off.\
\
\'93They were going to kill Ole Andreson,\'94 George said. \'93They were going to\
shoot him when he came in to eat.\'94\
\
\'93Ole Andreson?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
The cook felt the corners of his mouth with his thumbs.\
\
\'93They all gone?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93Yeah,\'94 said George. \'93They\'92re gone now.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t like it,\'94 said the cook. \'93I don\'92t like any of it at all.\'94\
\
\'93Listen,\'94 George said to Nick. \'93You better go see Ole Andreson.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93You better not have anything to do with it at all,\'94 Sam, the cook,\
said. \'93You better stay way out of it.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t go if you don\'92t want to,\'94 George said.\
\
\'93Mixing up in this ain\'92t going to get you anywhere,\'94 the cook said. \'93You\
stay out of it.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll go see him,\'94 Nick said to George. \'93Where does he live?\'94\
\
The cook turned away.\
\
\'93Little boys always know what they want to do,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93He lives up at Hirsch\'92s rooming-house,\'94 George said to Nick.\
\
\'93I\'92ll go up there.\'94\
\
Outside the arc-light shone through the bare branches of a tree. Nick\
walked up the street beside the car-tracks and turned at the next\
arc-light down a side-street. Three houses up the street was Hirsch\'92s\
rooming-house. Nick walked up the two steps and pushed the bell. A woman\
came to the door.\
\
\'93Is Ole Andreson here?\'94\
\
\'93Do you want to see him?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, if he\'92s in.\'94\
\
Nick followed the woman up a flight of stairs and back to the end of a\
corridor. She knocked on the door.\
\
\'93Who is it?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s somebody to see you, Mr. Andreson,\'94 the woman said.\
\
\'93It\'92s Nick Adams.\'94\
\
\'93Come in.\'94\
\
Nick opened the door and went into the room. Ole Andreson was lying on\
the bed with all his clothes on. He had been a heavyweight prizefighter\
and he was too long for the bed. He lay with his head on two pillows. He\
did not look at Nick.\
\
\'93What was it?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93I was up at Henry\'92s,\'94 Nick said, \'93and two fellows came in and tied up\
me and the cook, and they said they were going to kill you.\'94\
\
It sounded silly when he said it. Ole Andreson said nothing.\
\
\'93They put us out in the kitchen,\'94 Nick went on. \'93They were going to\
shoot you when you came in to supper.\'94\
\
Ole Andreson looked at the wall and did not say anything.\
\
\'93George thought I better come and tell you about it.\'94\
\
\'93There isn\'92t anything I can do about it,\'94 Ole Andreson said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell you what they were like.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to know what they were like,\'94 Ole Andreson said. He looked\
at the wall. \'93Thanks for coming to tell me about it.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all right.\'94\
\
Nick looked at the big man lying on the bed.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you want me to go and see the police?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Ole Andreson said. \'93That wouldn\'92t do any good.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t there something I could do?\'94\
\
\'93No. There ain\'92t anything to do.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe it was just a bluff.\'94\
\
\'93No. It ain\'92t just a bluff.\'94\
\
Ole Andreson rolled over toward the wall.\
\
\'93The only thing is,\'94 he said, talking toward the wall, \'93I just can\'92t\
make up my mind to go out. I been in here all day.\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t you get out of town?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Ole Andreson said. \'93I\'92m through with all that running around.\'94\
\
He looked at the wall.\
\
\'93There ain\'92t anything to do now.\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t you fix it up some way?\'94\
\
\'93No. I got in wrong.\'94 He talked in the same flat voice. \'93There ain\'92t\
anything to do. After a while I\'92ll make up my mind to go out.\'94\
\
\'93I better go back and see George,\'94 Nick said.\
\
\'93So long,\'94 said Ole Andreson. He did not look toward Nick. \'93Thanks for\
coming around.\'94\
\
Nick went out. As he shut the door he saw Ole Andreson with all his\
clothes on, lying on the bed looking at the wall.\
\
\'93He\'92s been in his room all day,\'94 the landlady said downstairs. \'93I guess\
he don\'92t feel well. I said to him: \'91Mr. Andreson, you ought to go out\
and take a walk on a nice fall day like this,\'92 but he didn\'92t feel like\
it.\'94\
\
\'93He doesn\'92t want to go out.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry he don\'92t feel well,\'94 the woman said. \'93He\'92s an awfully nice\
man. He was in the ring, you know.\'94\
\
\'93I know it.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d never know it except from the way his face is,\'94 the woman said.\
They stood talking just inside the street door. \'93He\'92s just as gentle.\'94\
\
\'93Well, good-night, Mrs. Hirsch,\'94 Nick said.\
\
\'93I\'92m not Mrs. Hirsch,\'94 the woman said. \'93She owns the place. I just look\
after it for her. I\'92m Mrs. Bell.\'94\
\
\'93Well, good-night, Mrs. Bell,\'94 Nick said.\
\
\'93Good-night,\'94 the woman said.\
\
Nick walked up the dark street to the corner under the arc-light, and\
then along the car-tracks to Henry\'92s eating-house. George was inside,\
back of the counter.\
\
\'93Did you see Ole?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Nick. \'93He\'92s in his room and he won\'92t go out.\'94\
\
The cook opened the door from the kitchen when he heard Nick\'92s voice.\
\
\'93I don\'92t even listen to it,\'94 he said and shut the door.\
\
\'93Did you tell him about it?\'94 George asked.\
\
\'93Sure. I told him but he knows what it\'92s all about.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s he going to do?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92ll kill him.\'94\
\
\'93I guess they will.\'94\
\
\'93He must have got mixed up in something in Chicago.\'94\
\
\'93I guess so,\'94 said Nick.\
\
\'93It\'92s a hell of a thing.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s an awful thing,\'94 Nick said.\
\
They did not say anything. George reached down for a towel and wiped the\
counter.\
\
\'93I wonder what he did?\'94 Nick said.\
\
\'93Double-crossed somebody. That\'92s what they kill them for.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to get out of this town,\'94 Nick said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said George. \'93That\'92s a good thing to do.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t stand to think about him waiting in the room and knowing he\'92s\
going to get it. It\'92s too damned awful.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 said George, \'93you better not think about it.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                         CHE TI DICE LA PATRIA?\
\
\
THE road of the pass was hard and smooth and not yet dusty in the early\
morning. Below were the hills with oak and chestnut trees, and far away\
below was the sea. On the other side were snowy mountains.\
\
We came down from the pass through wooded country. There were bags of\
charcoal piled beside the road, and through the trees we saw\
charcoal-burners\'92 huts. It was Sunday and the road, rising and falling,\
but always dropping away from the altitude of the pass, went through the\
scrub woods and through villages.\
\
Outside the villages there were fields with vines. The fields were brown\
and the vines coarse and thick. The houses were white, and in the\
streets the men, in their Sunday clothes, were playing bowls. Against\
the walls of some of the houses there were pear trees, their branches\
candelabraed against the white walls. The pear trees had been sprayed,\
and the walls of the houses were stained a metallic blue-green by the\
spray vapor. There were small clearings around the villages where the\
vines grew, and then the woods.\
\
In a village, twenty kilometres above Spezia, there was a crowd in the\
square, and a young man carrying a suitcase came up to the car and asked\
us to take him in to Spezia.\
\
\'93There are only two places, and they are occupied,\'94 I said. We had an\
old Ford coup\'e9.\
\
\'93I will ride on the outside.\'94\
\
\'93You will be uncomfortable.\'94\
\
\'93That makes nothing. I must go to Spezia.\'94\
\
\'93Should we take him?\'94 I asked Guy.\
\
\'93He seems to be going anyway,\'94 Guy said. The young man handed in a\
parcel through the window.\
\
\'93Look after this,\'94 he said. Two men tied his suitcase on the back of the\
car, above our suitcases. He shook hands with every one, explained that\
to a Fascist and a man as used to travelling as himself there was no\
discomfort, and climbed up on the running-board on the left-hand side of\
the car, holding on inside, his right arm through the open window.\
\
\'93You can start,\'94 he said. The crowd waved. He waved with his free hand.\
\
\'93What did he say?\'94 Guy asked me.\
\
\'93That we could start.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t he nice?\'94 Guy said.\
\
The road followed a river. Across the river were mountains. The sun was\
taking the frost out of the grass. It was bright and cold and the air\
came cold through the open wind-shield.\
\
\'93How do you think he likes it out there?\'94 Guy was looking up the road.\
His view out of his side of the car was blocked by our guest. The young\
man projected from the side of the car like the figurehead of a ship. He\
had turned his coat collar up and pulled his hat down and his nose\
looked cold in the wind.\
\
\'93Maybe he\'92ll get enough of it,\'94 Guy said. \'93That\'92s the side our bum\
tire\'92s on.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, he\'92d leave us if we blew out,\'94 I said. \'93He wouldn\'92t get his\
travelling-clothes dirty.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I don\'92t mind him,\'94 Guy said\'97\'93except the way he leans out on the\
turns.\'94\
\
The woods were gone; the road had left the river to climb; the radiator\
was boiling; the young man looked annoyedly and suspiciously at the\
steam and rusty water; the engine was grinding, with both Guy\'92s feet on\
the first-speed pedal, up and up, back and forth and up, and, finally,\
out level. The grinding stopped, and in the new quiet there was a great\
churning bubbling in the radiator. We were at the top of the last range\
above Spezia and the sea. The road descended with short, barely rounded\
turns. Our guest hung out on the turns and nearly pulled the top-heavy\
car over.\
\
\'93You can\'92t tell him not to,\'94 I said to Guy. \'93It\'92s his sense of\
self-preservation.\'94\
\
\'93The great Italian sense.\'94\
\
\'93The greatest Italian sense.\'94\
\
We came down around curves, through deep dust, the dust powdering the\
olive trees. Spezia spread below along the sea. The road flattened\
outside the town. Our guest put his head in the window.\
\
\'93I want to stop.\'94\
\
\'93Stop it,\'94 I said to Guy.\
\
We slowed up, at the side of the road. The young man got down, went to\
the back of the car and untied the suitcase.\
\
\'93I stop here, so you won\'92t get into trouble carrying passengers,\'94 he\
said. \'93My package.\'94\
\
I handed him the package. He reached in his pocket.\
\
\'93How much do I owe you?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Then thanks,\'94 the young man said, not \'93thank you,\'94 or \'93thank you very\
much,\'94 or \'93thank you a thousand times,\'94 all of which you formerly said\
in Italy to a man when he handed you a time-table or explained about a\
direction. The young man uttered the lowest form of the word \'93thanks\'94\
and looked after us suspiciously as Guy started the car. I waved my hand\
at him. He was too dignified to reply. We went on into Spezia.\
\
\'93That\'92s a young man that will go a long way in Italy,\'94 I said to Guy.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 said Guy, \'93he went twenty kilometres with us.\'94\
\
\
                            A MEAL IN SPEZIA\
\
We came into Spezia looking for a place to eat. The street was wide and\
the houses high and yellow. We followed the tram-track into the centre\
of town. On the walls of the houses were stencilled eye-bugging\
portraits of Mussolini, with hand-painted \'93vivas,\'94 the double V in black\
paint with drippings of paint down the wall. Side-streets went down to\
the harbor. It was bright and the people were all out for Sunday. The\
stone paving had been sprinkled and there were damp stretches in the\
dust. We went close to the curb to avoid a tram.\
\
\'93Let\'92s eat somewhere simple,\'94 Guy said.\
\
We stopped opposite two restaurant signs. We were standing across the\
street and I was buying the papers. The two restaurants were side by\
side. A woman standing in the doorway of one smiled at us and we crossed\
the street and went in.\
\
It was dark inside and at the back of the room three girls were sitting\
at a table with an old woman. Across from us, at another table, sat a\
sailor. He sat there neither eating nor drinking. Further back, a young\
man in a blue suit was writing at a table. His hair was pomaded and\
shining and he was very smartly dressed and clean-cut looking.\
\
The light came through the doorway, and through the window where\
vegetables, fruit, steaks, and chops were arranged in a show-case. A\
girl came and took our order and another girl stood in the doorway. We\
noticed that she wore nothing under her house dress. The girl who took\
our order put her arm around Guy\'92s neck while we were looking at the\
menu. There were three girls in all, and they all took turns going and\
standing in the doorway. The old woman at the table in the back of the\
room spoke to them and they sat down again with her.\
\
There was no doorway leading from the room except into the kitchen. A\
curtain hung over it. The girl who had taken our order came in from the\
kitchen with spaghetti. She put it on the table and brought a bottle of\
red wine and sat down at the table.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said to Guy, \'93you wanted to eat some place simple.\'94\
\
\'93This isn\'92t simple. This is complicated.\'94\
\
\'93What do you say?\'94 asked the girl. \'93Are you Germans?\'94\
\
\'93South Germans,\'94 I said. \'93The South Germans are a gentle, lovable\
people.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t understand,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93What\'92s the mechanics of this place?\'94 Guy asked. \'93Do I have to let her\
put her arm around my neck?\'94\
\
\'93Certainly,\'94 I said. \'93Mussolini has abolished the brothels. This is a\
restaurant.\'94\
\
The girl wore a one-piece dress. She leaned forward against the table\
and put her hands on her breasts and smiled. She smiled better on one\
side than on the other and turned the good side toward us. The charm of\
the good side had been enhanced by some event which had smoothed the\
other side of her nose in, as warm wax can be smoothed. Her nose,\
however, did not look like warm wax. It was very cold and firmed, only\
smoothed in. \'93You like me?\'94 she asked Guy.\
\
\'93He adores you,\'94 I said. \'93But he doesn\'92t speak Italian.\'94\
\
\'93Ich spreche Deutsch,\'94 she said, and stroked Guy\'92s hair.\
\
\'93Speak to the lady in your native tongue, Guy.\'94\
\
\'93Where do you come from?\'94 asked the lady.\
\
\'93Potsdam.\'94\
\
\'93And you will stay here now for a little while?\'94\
\
\'93In this so dear Spezia?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Tell her we have to go,\'94 said Guy. \'93Tell her we are very ill, and have\
no money.\'94\
\
\'93My friend is a misogynist,\'94 I said, \'93an old German misogynist.\'94\
\
\'93Tell him I love him.\'94\
\
I told him.\
\
\'93Will you shut your mouth and get us out of here?\'94 Guy said. The lady\
had placed another arm around his neck. \'93Tell him he is mine,\'94 she said.\
I told him.\
\
\'93Will you get us out of here?\'94\
\
\'93You are quarrelling,\'94 the lady said. \'93You do not love one another.\'94\
\
\'93We are Germans,\'94 I said proudly, \'93old South Germans.\'94\
\
\'93Tell him he is a beautiful boy,\'94 the lady said. Guy is thirty-eight and\
takes some pride in the fact that he is taken for a travelling salesman\
in France. \'93You are a beautiful boy,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Who says so?\'94 Guy asked, \'93you or her?\'94\
\
\'93She does. I\'92m just your interpreter. Isn\'92t that what you got me in on\
this trip for?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m glad it\'92s her,\'94 said Guy. \'93I didn\'92t want to have to leave you here\
too.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. Spezia\'92s a lovely place.\'94\
\
\'93Spezia,\'94 the lady said. \'93You are talking about Spezia.\'94\
\
\'93Lovely place,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93It is my country,\'94 she said. \'93Spezia is my home and Italy is my\
country.\'94\
\
\'93She says that Italy is her country.\'94\
\
\'93Tell her it looks like her country,\'94 Guy said.\
\
\'93What have you for dessert?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Fruit,\'94 she said. \'93We have bananas.\'94\
\
\'93Bananas are all right,\'94 Guy said. \'93They\'92ve got skins on.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, he takes bananas,\'94 the lady said. She embraced Guy.\
\
\'93What does she say?\'94 he asked, keeping his face out of the way.\
\
\'93She is pleased because you take bananas.\'94\
\
\'93Tell her I don\'92t take bananas.\'94\
\
\'93The Signor does not take bananas.\'94\
\
\'93Ah,\'94 said the lady, crestfallen, \'93he doesn\'92t take bananas.\'94\
\
\'93Tell her I take a cold bath every morning,\'94 Guy said.\
\
\'93The Signor takes a cold bath every morning.\'94\
\
\'93No understand,\'94 the lady said.\
\
Across from us, the property sailor had not moved. No one in the place\
paid any attention to him.\
\
\'93We want the bill,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Oh, no. You must stay.\'94\
\
\'93Listen,\'94 the clean-cut young man said from the table where he was\
writing, \'93let them go. These two are worth nothing.\'94\
\
The lady took my hand. \'93You won\'92t stay? You won\'92t ask him to stay?\'94\
\
\'93We have to go,\'94 I said. \'93We have to get to Pisa, or if possible,\
Firenze, to-night. We can amuse ourselves in those cities at the end of\
the day. It is now the day. In the day we must cover distance.\'94\
\
\'93To stay a little while is nice.\'94\
\
\'93To travel is necessary during the light of day.\'94\
\
\'93Listen,\'94 the clean-cut young man said. \'93Don\'92t bother to talk with these\
two. I tell you they are worth nothing and I know.\'94\
\
\'93Bring us the bill,\'94 I said. She brought the bill from the old woman and\
went back and sat at the table. Another girl came in from the kitchen.\
She walked the length of the room and stood in the doorway.\
\
\'93Don\'92t bother with these two,\'94 the clean-cut young man said in a wearied\
voice. \'93Come and eat. They are worth nothing.\'94\
\
We paid the bill and stood up. All the girls, the old woman, and the\
clean-cut young man sat down at table together. The property sailor sat\
with his head in his hands. No one had spoken to him all the time we\
were at lunch. The girl brought us our change that the old woman counted\
out for her and went back to her place at the table. We left a tip on\
the table and went out. When we were seated in the car ready to start,\
the girl came out and stood in the door. We started and I waved to her.\
She did not wave, but stood there looking after us.\
\
\
                             AFTER THE RAIN\
\
It was raining hard when we passed through the suburbs of Genoa and,\
even going very slowly behind the tram-cars and the motor trucks, liquid\
mud splashed on to the sidewalks, so that people stepped into doorways\
as they saw us coming. In San Pier d\'92Arena, the industrial suburb\
outside of Genoa, there is a wide street with two car-tracks and we\
drove down the centre to avoid sending the mud on to the men going home\
from work. On our left was the Mediterranean. There was a big sea\
running and waves broke and the wind blew the spray against the car. A\
river-bed that, when we had passed, going into Italy, had been wide,\
stony and dry, was running brown, and up to the banks. The brown water\
discolored the sea and as the waves thinned and cleared in breaking, the\
light came through the yellow water and the crests, detached by the\
wind, blew across the road.\
\
A big car passed us, going fast, and a sheet of muddy water rose up and\
over our wind-shield and radiator. The automatic wind-shield cleaner\
moved back and forth, spreading the film over the glass. We stopped and\
ate lunch at Sestri. There was no heat in the restaurant and we kept our\
hats and coats on. We could see the car outside, through the window. It\
was covered with mud and was stopped beside some boats that had been\
pulled up beyond the waves. In the restaurant you could see your breath.\
\
The _pasta asciuta_ was good; the wine tasted of alum, and we poured\
water in it. Afterward the waiter brought beefsteak and fried potatoes.\
A man and a woman sat at the far end of the restaurant. He was\
middle-aged and she was young and wore black. All during the meal she\
would blow out her breath in the cold damp air. The man would look at it\
and shake his head. They ate without talking and the man held her hand\
under the table. She was good-looking and they seemed very sad. They had\
a travelling-bag with them.\
\
We had the papers and I read the account of the Shanghai fighting aloud\
to Guy. After the meal, he left with the waiter in search for a place\
which did not exist in the restaurant, and I cleaned off the\
wind-shield, the lights and the license plates with a rag. Guy came back\
and we backed the car out and started. The waiter had taken him across\
the road and into an old house. The people in the house were suspicious\
and the waiter had remained with Guy to see nothing was stolen.\
\
\'93Although I don\'92t know how, me not being a plumber, they expected me to\
steal anything,\'94 Guy said.\
\
As we came up on a headland beyond the town, the wind struck the car and\
nearly tipped it over.\
\
\'93It\'92s good it blows us away from the sea,\'94 Guy said.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93they drowned Shelley somewhere along here.\'94\
\
\'93That was down by Viareggio,\'94 Guy said. \'93Do you remember what we came to\
this country for?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said, \'93but we didn\'92t get it.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll be out of it to-night.\'94\
\
\'93If we can get past Ventimiglia.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll see. I don\'92t like to drive this coast at night.\'94 It was early\
afternoon and the sun was out. Below, the sea was blue with whitecaps\
running toward Savona. Back, beyond the cape, the brown and blue waters\
joined. Out ahead of us, a tramp steamer was going up the coast.\
\
\'93Can you still see Genoa?\'94 Guy asked.\
\
\'93Oh, yes.\'94\
\
\'93That next big cape ought to put it out of sight.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll see it a long time yet. I can still see Portofino Cape behind\
it.\'94\
\
Finally we could not see Genoa. I looked back as we came out and there\
was only the sea, and below in the bay, a line of beach with\
fishing-boats and above, on the side of the hill, a town and then capes\
far down the coast.\
\
\'93It\'92s gone now,\'94 I said to Guy.\
\
\'93Oh, it\'92s been gone a long time now.\'94\
\
\'93But we couldn\'92t be sure till we got way out.\'94\
\
There was a sign with a picture of an S-turn and Svolta Pericolosa. The\
road curved around the headland and the wind blew through the crack in\
the wind-shield. Below the cape was a flat stretch beside the sea. The\
wind had dried the mud and the wheels were beginning to lift dust. On\
the flat road we passed a Fascist riding a bicycle, a heavy revolver in\
a holster on his back. He held the middle of the road on his bicycle and\
we turned out for him. He looked up at us as we passed. Ahead there was\
a railway crossing, and as we came toward it the gates went down.\
\
As we waited, the Fascist came up on his bicycle. The train went by and\
Guy started the engine.\
\
\'93Wait,\'94 the bicycle man shouted from behind the car. \'93Your number\'92s\
dirty.\'94\
\
I got out with a rag. The number had been cleaned at lunch.\
\
\'93You can read it,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You think so?\'94\
\
\'93Read it.\'94\
\
\'93I cannot read it. It is dirty.\'94\
\
I wiped it off with the rag.\
\
\'93How\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Twenty-five lire.\'94\
\
\'93What?\'94 I said. \'93You could have read it. It\'92s only dirty from the state\
of the roads.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t like Italian roads?\'94\
\
\'93They are dirty.\'94\
\
\'93Fifty lire.\'94 He spat in the road. \'93Your car is dirty and you are dirty\
too.\'94\
\
\'93Good. And give me a receipt with your name.\'94\
\
He took out a receipt-book, made in duplicate, and perforated, so one\
side could be given to the customer, and the other side filled in and\
kept as a stub. There was no carbon to record what the customer\'92s ticket\
said.\
\
\'93Give me fifty lire.\'94\
\
He wrote in indelible pencil, tore out the slip and handed it to me. I\
read it.\
\
\'93This is for twenty-five lire.\'94\
\
\'93A mistake,\'94 he said, and changed the twenty-five to fifty.\
\
\'93And now the other side. Make it fifty in the part you keep.\'94\
\
He smiled a beautiful Italian smile and wrote something on the receipt\
stub, holding it so I could not see.\
\
\'93Go on,\'94 he said, \'93before your number gets dirty again.\'94\
\
We drove for two hours after it was dark and slept in Mentone that\
night. It seemed very cheerful and clean and sane and lovely. We had\
driven from Ventimiglia to Pisa and Florence, across the Romagna to\
Rimini, back through Forli, Imola, Bologna, Parma, Piacenza and Genoa,\
to Ventimiglia again. The whole trip had only taken ten days. Naturally,\
in such a short trip, we had no opportunity to see how things were with\
the country or the people.\
\
\
\
\
                              FIFTY GRAND\
\
\
\'93HOW are you going yourself, Jack?\'94 I asked him.\
\
\'93You seen this, Walcott?\'94 he says.\
\
\'93Just in the gym.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 Jack says, \'93I\'92m going to need a lot of luck with that boy.\'94\
\
\'93He can\'92t hit you, Jack,\'94 Soldier said.\
\
\'93I wish to hell he couldn\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93He couldn\'92t hit you with a handful of bird-shot.\'94\
\
\'93Bird-shot\'92d be all right,\'94 Jack says. \'93I wouldn\'92t mind bird-shot any.\'94\
\
\'93He looks easy to hit,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 Jack says, \'93he ain\'92t going to last long. He ain\'92t going to last\
like you and me, Jerry. But right now he\'92s got everything.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll left-hand him to death.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe,\'94 Jack says. \'93Sure. I got a chance to.\'94\
\
\'93Handle him like you handled Kid Lewis.\'94\
\
\'93Kid Lewis,\'94 Jack said. \'93That kike!\'94\
\
The three of us, Jack Brennan, Soldier Bartlett, and I were in\
Handley\'92s. There were a couple of broads sitting at the next table to\
us. They had been drinking.\
\
\'93What do you mean, kike?\'94 one of the broads says. \'93What do you mean,\
kike, you big Irish bum?\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 Jack says. \'93That\'92s it.\'94\
\
\'93Kikes,\'94 this broad goes on. \'93They\'92re always talking about kikes, these\
big Irishmen. What do you mean, kikes?\'94\
\
\'93Come on. Let\'92s get out of here.\'94\
\
\'93Kikes,\'94 this broad goes on. \'93Whoever saw you ever buy a drink? Your\
wife sews your pockets up every morning. These Irishmen and their kikes!\
Ted Lewis could lick you too.\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 Jack says. \'93And you give away a lot of things free too, don\'92t\
you?\'94\
\
We went out. That was Jack. He could say what he wanted to when he\
wanted to say it.\
\
Jack started training out at Danny Hogan\'92s health-farm over in Jersey.\
It was nice out there but Jack didn\'92t like it much. He didn\'92t like being\
away from his wife and the kids, and he was sore and grouchy most of the\
time. He liked me and we got along fine together; and he liked Hogan,\
but after a while Soldier Bartlett commenced to get on his nerves. A\
kidder gets to be an awful thing around a camp if his stuff goes sort of\
sour. Soldier was always kidding Jack, just sort of kidding him all the\
time. It wasn\'92t very funny and it wasn\'92t very good, and it began to get\
to Jack. It was sort of stuff like this. Jack would finish up with the\
weights and the bag and pull on the gloves.\
\
\'93You want to work?\'94 he\'92d say to Soldier.\
\
\'93Sure. How you want me to work?\'94 Soldier would ask. \'93Want me to treat\
you rough like Walcott? Want me to knock you down a few times?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it,\'94 Jack would say. He didn\'92t like it any, though.\
\
One morning we were all out on the road. We\'92d been out quite a way and\
now we were coming back. We\'92d go along fast for three minutes and then\
walk a minute, and then go fast for three minutes again. Jack wasn\'92t\
ever what you would call a sprinter. He\'92d move around fast enough in the\
ring if he had to, but he wasn\'92t any too fast on the road. All the time\
we were walking Soldier was kidding him. We came up the hill to the\
farmhouse.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 says Jack, \'93you better go back to town, Soldier.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93You better go back to town and stay there.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sick of hearing you talk.\'94\
\
\'93Yes?\'94 says Soldier.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 says Jack.\
\
\'93You\'92ll be a damn sight sicker when Walcott gets through with you.\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 says Jack, \'93maybe I will. But I know I\'92m sick of you.\'94\
\
So Soldier went off on the train to town that same morning. I went down\
with him to the train. He was good and sore.\
\
\'93I was just kidding him,\'94 he said. We were waiting on the platform. \'93He\
can\'92t pull that stuff with me, Jerry.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s nervous and crabby,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s a good fellow, Soldier.\'94\
\
\'93The hell he is. The hell he\'92s ever been a good fellow.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93so long, Soldier.\'94\
\
The train had come in. He climbed up with his bag.\
\
\'93So long, Jerry,\'94 he says. \'93You be in town before the fight?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so.\'94\
\
\'93See you then.\'94\
\
He went in and the conductor swung up and the train went out. I rode\
back to the farm in the cart. Jack was on the porch writing a letter to\
his wife. The mail had come and I got the papers and went over on the\
other side of the porch and sat down to read. Hogan came out the door\
and walked over to me.\
\
\'93Did he have a jam with Soldier?\'94\
\
\'93Not a jam,\'94 I said. \'93He just told him to go back to town.\'94\
\
\'93I could see it coming,\'94 Hogan said. \'93He never liked Soldier much.\'94\
\
\'93No. He don\'92t like many people.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a pretty cold one,\'94 Hogan said.\
\
\'93Well, he\'92s always been fine to me.\'94\
\
\'93Me too,\'94 Hogan said. \'93I got no kick on him. He\'92s a cold one, though.\'94\
\
Hogan went in through the screen door and I sat there on the porch and\
read the papers. It was just starting to get fall weather and it\'92s nice\
country there in Jersey, up in the hills, and after I read the paper\
through I sat there and looked out at the country and the road down\
below against the woods with cars going along it, lifting the dust up.\
It was fine weather and pretty nice-looking country. Hogan came to the\
door and I said, \'93Say, Hogan, haven\'92t you got anything to shoot out\
here?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Hogan said. \'93Only sparrows.\'94\
\
\'93Seen the paper?\'94 I said to Hogan.\
\
\'93What\'92s in it?\'94\
\
\'93Sande booted three of them in yesterday.\'94\
\
\'93I got that on the telephone last night.\'94\
\
\'93You follow them pretty close, Hogan?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Oh, I keep in touch with them,\'94 Hogan said.\
\
\'93How about Jack?\'94 I says. \'93Does he still play them?\'94\
\
\'93Him?\'94 said Hogan. \'93Can you see him doing it?\'94\
\
Just then Jack came around the corner with the letter in his hand. He\'92s\
wearing a sweater and an old pair of pants and boxing shoes.\
\
\'93Got a stamp, Hogan?\'94 he asks.\
\
\'93Give me the letter,\'94 Hogan said. \'93I\'92ll mail it for you.\'94\
\
\'93Say, Jack,\'94 I said, \'93didn\'92t you used to play the ponies?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93I knew you did. I knew I used to see you out at Sheepshead.\'94\
\
\'93What did you lay off them for?\'94 Hogan asked.\
\
\'93Lost money.\'94\
\
Jack sat down on the porch by me. He leaned back against a post. He shut\
his eyes in the sun.\
\
\'93Want a chair?\'94 Hogan asked.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Jack. \'93This is fine.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a nice day,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s pretty nice out in the country.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d a damn sight rather be in town with the wife.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you only got another week.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 Jack says. \'93That\'92s so.\'94\
\
We sat there on the porch. Hogan was inside at the office.\
\
\'93What do you think about the shape I\'92m in?\'94 Jack asked me.\
\
\'93Well, you can\'92t tell,\'94 I said. \'93You got a week to get around into\
form.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t stall me.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93you\'92re not right.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not sleeping,\'94 Jack said.\
\
\'93You\'92ll be all right in a couple of days.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 says Jack, \'93I got the insomnia.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s on your mind?\'94\
\
\'93I miss the wife.\'94\
\
\'93Have her come out.\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92m too old for that.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll take a long walk before you turn in and get you good and tired.\'94\
\
\'93Tired!\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m tired all the time.\'94\
\
He was that way all week. He wouldn\'92t sleep at night and he\'92d get up in\
the morning feeling that way, you know, when you can\'92t shut your hands.\
\
\'93He\'92s stale as poorhouse cake,\'94 Hogan said. \'93He\'92s nothing.\'94\
\
\'93I never seen Walcott,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93He\'92ll kill him,\'94 said Hogan. \'93He\'92ll tear him in two.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93everybody\'92s got to get it sometime.\'94\
\
\'93Not like this, though,\'94 Hogan said. \'93They\'92ll think he never trained. It\
gives the farm a black eye.\'94\
\
\'93You hear what the reporters said about him?\'94\
\
\'93Didn\'92t I! They said he was awful. They said they oughtn\'92t to let him\
fight.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93they\'92re always wrong, ain\'92t they?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Hogan. \'93But this time they\'92re right.\'94\
\
\'93What the hell do they know about whether a man\'92s right or not?\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 said Hogan, \'93they\'92re not such fools.\'94\
\
\'93All they did was pick Willard at Toledo. This Lardner, he\'92s so wise\
now, ask him about when he picked Willard at Toledo.\'94\
\
\'93Aw, he wasn\'92t out,\'94 Hogan said. \'93He only writes the big fights.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t care who they are,\'94 I said. \'93What the hell do they know? They\
can write maybe, but what the hell do they know?\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t think Jack\'92s in any shape, do you?\'94 Hogan asked.\
\
\'93No. He\'92s through. All he needs is to have Corbett pick him to win for\
it to be all over.\'94\
\
\'93Well, Corbett\'92ll pick him,\'94 Hogan says.\
\
\'93Sure. He\'92ll pick him.\'94\
\
That night Jack didn\'92t sleep any either. The next morning was the last\
day before the fight. After breakfast we were out on the porch again.\
\
\'93What do you think about, Jack, when you can\'92t sleep?\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Oh, I worry,\'94 Jack says. \'93I worry about property I got up in the Bronx,\
I worry about property I got in Florida. I worry about the kids. I worry\
about the wife. Sometimes I think about fights. I think about that kike\
Ted Lewis and I get sore. I got some stocks and I worry about them. What\
the hell don\'92t I think about?\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93to-morrow night it\'92ll all be over.\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Jack. \'93That always helps a lot, don\'92t it? That just fixes\
everything all up, I suppose. Sure.\'94\
\
He was sore all day. We didn\'92t do any work. Jack just moved around a\
little to loosen up. He shadow-boxed a few rounds. He didn\'92t even look\
good doing that. He skipped the rope a little while. He couldn\'92t sweat.\
\
\'93He\'92d be better not to do any work at all,\'94 Hogan said. We were standing\
watching him skip rope. \'93Don\'92t he ever sweat at all any more?\'94\
\
\'93He can\'92t sweat.\'94\
\
\'93Do you suppose he\'92s got the con? He never had any trouble making\
weight, did he?\'94\
\
\'93No, he hasn\'92t got any con. He just hasn\'92t got anything inside any\
more.\'94\
\
\'93He ought to sweat,\'94 said Hogan.\
\
Jack came over, skipping the rope. He was skipping up and down in front\
of us, forward and back, crossing his arms every third time.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he says. \'93What are you buzzards talking about?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think you ought to work any more,\'94 Hogan says. \'93You\'92ll be\
stale.\'94\
\
\'93Wouldn\'92t that be awful?\'94 Jack says and skips away down the floor,\
slapping the rope hard.\
\
That afternoon John Collins showed up out at the farm. Jack was up in\
his room. John, came out in a car from town. He had a couple of friends\
with him. The car stopped and they all got out.\
\
\'93Where\'92s Jack?\'94 John asked me.\
\
\'93Up in his room, lying down.\'94\
\
\'93Lying down?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93How is he?\'94\
\
I looked at the two fellows that were with John.\
\
\'93They\'92re friends of his,\'94 John said.\
\
\'93He\'92s pretty bad,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter with him?\'94\
\
\'93He don\'92t sleep.\'94\
\
\'93Hell,\'94 said John. \'93That Irishman could never sleep.\'94\
\
\'93He isn\'92t right,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Hell,\'94 John said. \'93He\'92s never right. I\'92ve had him for ten years and\
he\'92s never been right yet.\'94\
\
The fellows who were with him laughed.\
\
\'93I want you to shake hands with Mr. Morgan and Mr. Steinfelt,\'94 John\
said. \'93This is Mr. Doyle. He\'92s been training Jack.\'94\
\
\'93Glad to meet you,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Let\'92s go up and see the boy,\'94 the fellow called Morgan said.\
\
\'93Let\'92s have a look at him,\'94 Steinfelt said.\
\
We all went upstairs.\
\
\'93Where\'92s Hogan?\'94 John asked.\
\
\'93He\'92s out in the barn with a couple of his customers,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93He got many people out here now?\'94 John asked.\
\
\'93Just two.\'94\
\
\'93Pretty quiet, ain\'92t it?\'94 Morgan said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s pretty quiet.\'94\
\
We were outside Jack\'92s room. John knocked on the door. There wasn\'92t any\
answer.\
\
\'93Maybe he\'92s asleep,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93What the hell\'92s he sleeping in the daytime for?\'94\
\
John turned the handle and we all went in. Jack was lying asleep on the\
bed. He was face down and his face was in the pillow. Both his arms were\
around the pillow.\
\
\'93Hey, Jack!\'94 John said to him.\
\
Jack\'92s head moved a little on the pillow. \'93Jack!\'94 John says, leaning\
over him. Jack just dug a little deeper in the pillow. John touched him\
on the shoulder. Jack sat up and looked at us. He hadn\'92t shaved and he\
was wearing an old sweater.\
\
\'93Christ! Why can\'92t you let me sleep?\'94 he says to John.\
\
\'93Don\'92t be sore,\'94 John says. \'93I didn\'92t mean to wake you up.\'94\
\
\'93Oh no,\'94 Jack says. \'93Of course not.\'94\
\
\'93You know Morgan and Steinfelt,\'94 John said.\
\
\'93Glad to see you,\'94 Jack says.\
\
\'93How do you feel, Jack,\'94 Morgan asks him.\
\
\'93Fine,\'94 Jack says. \'93How the hell would I feel?\'94\
\
\'93You look fine,\'94 Steinfelt says.\
\
\'93Yes, don\'92t I,\'94 says Jack. \'93Say,\'94 he says to John. \'93You\'92re my manager.\
You get a big enough cut. Why the hell don\'92t you come out here when the\
reporters was out! You want Jerry and me to talk to them?\'94\
\
\'93I had Lew fighting in Philadelphia,\'94 John said.\
\
\'93What the hell\'92s that to me?\'94 Jack says. \'93You\'92re my manager. You get a\
big enough cut, don\'92t you? You aren\'92t making me any money in\
Philadelphia, are you? Why the hell aren\'92t you out here when I ought to\
have you?\'94\
\
\'93Hogan was here.\'94\
\
\'93Hogan,\'94 Jack says. \'93Hogan\'92s as dumb as I am.\'94\
\
\'93Soldier Bathlett was out here wukking with you for a while, wasn\'92t he?\'94\
Steinfelt said to change the subject.\
\
\'93Yes, he was out here,\'94 Jack says. \'93He was out here all right.\'94\
\
\'93Say, Jerry,\'94 John said to me. \'93Would you go and find Hogan and tell him\
we want to see him in about half an hour?\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Why the hell can\'92t he stick around?\'94 Jack says. \'93Stick around, Jerry.\'94\
\
Morgan and Steinfelt looked at each other.\
\
\'93Quiet down, Jack,\'94 John said to him.\
\
\'93I better go find Hogan,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93All right, if you want to go,\'94 Jack says. \'93None of these guys are going\
to send you away, though.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll go find Hogan,\'94 I said.\
\
Hogan was out in the gym in the barn. He had a couple of his health-farm\
patients with the gloves on. They neither one wanted to hit the other,\
for fear the other would come back and hit him.\
\
\'93That\'92ll do,\'94 Hogan said when he saw me come in. \'93You can stop the\
slaughter. You gentlemen take a shower and Bruce will rub you down.\'94\
\
They climbed out through the ropes and Hogan came over to me.\
\
\'93John Collins is out with a couple of friends to see Jack,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I saw them come up in the car.\'94\
\
\'93Who are the two fellows with John?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re what you call wise boys,\'94 Hogan said. \'93Don\'92t you know them\
two?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93That\'92s Happy Steinfelt and Lew Morgan. They got a pool-room.\'94\
\
\'93I been away a long time,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Hogan. \'93That Happy Steinfelt\'92s a big operator.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve heard his name,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93He\'92s a pretty smooth boy,\'94 Hogan said. \'93They\'92re a couple of\
sharpshooters.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said. \'93They want to see us in half an hour.\'94\
\
\'93You mean they don\'92t want to see us until a half an hour?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it.\'94\
\
\'93Come on in the office,\'94 Hogan said. \'93To hell with those sharpshooters.\'94\
\
After about thirty minutes or so Hogan and I went upstairs. We knocked\
on Jack\'92s door. They were talking inside the room.\
\
\'93Wait a minute,\'94 somebody said.\
\
\'93To hell with that stuff,\'94 Hogan said. \'93When you want to see me I\'92m down\
in the office.\'94\
\
We heard the door unlock. Steinfelt opened it.\
\
\'93Come on in, Hogan,\'94 he says. \'93We\'92re all going to have a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 says Hogan. \'93That\'92s something.\'94\
\
We went in. Jack was sitting on the bed. John and Morgan were sitting on\
a couple of chairs. Steinfelt was standing up.\
\
\'93You\'92re a pretty mysterious lot of boys,\'94 Hogan said.\
\
\'93Hello, Danny,\'94 John says.\
\
\'93Hello, Danny,\'94 Morgan says and shakes hands.\
\
Jack doesn\'92t say anything. He just sits there on the bed. He ain\'92t with\
the others. He\'92s all by himself. He was wearing an old blue jersey and\
pants and had on boxing shoes. He needed a shave. Steinfelt and Morgan\
were dressers. John was quite a dresser too. Jack sat there looking\
Irish and tough.\
\
Steinfelt brought out a bottle and Hogan brought in some glasses and\
everybody had a drink. Jack and I took one and the rest of them went on\
and had two or three each.\
\
\'93Better save some for your ride back,\'94 Hogan said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you worry. We got plenty,\'94 Morgan said.\
\
Jack hadn\'92t drunk anything since the one drink. He was standing up and\
looking at them. Morgan was sitting on the bed where Jack had sat.\
\
\'93Have a drink, Jack,\'94 John said and handed him the glass and the bottle.\
\
\'93No,\'94 Jack said, \'93I never liked to go to these wakes.\'94\
\
They all laughed. Jack didn\'92t laugh.\
\
They were all feeling pretty good when they left. Jack stood on the\
porch when they got into the car. They waved to him.\
\
\'93So long,\'94 Jack said.\
\
We had supper. Jack didn\'92t say anything all during the meal except,\
\'93Will you pass me this?\'94 or \'93Will you pass me that?\'94 The two health-farm\
patients ate at the same table with us. They were pretty nice fellows.\
After we finished eating we went out on the porch. It was dark early.\
\
\'93Like to take a walk, Jerry?\'94 Jack asked.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 I said.\
\
We put on our coats and started out. It was quite a way down to the main\
road and then we walked along the main road about a mile and a half.\
Cars kept going by and we would pull out to the side until they were\
past. Jack didn\'92t say anything. After we had stepped out into the bushes\
to let a big car go by Jack said, \'93To hell with this walking. Come on\
back to Hogan\'92s.\'94\
\
We went along a side road that cut up over the hill and cut across the\
fields back to Hogan\'92s. We could see the lights of the house up on the\
hill. We came around to the front of the house and there standing in the\
doorway was Hogan.\
\
\'93Have a good walk?\'94 Hogan asked.\
\
\'93Oh, fine,\'94 Jack said. \'93Listen, Hogan. Have you got any liquor?\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 says Hogan. \'93What\'92s the idea?\'94\
\
\'93Send it up to the room,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m going to sleep to-night.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re the doctor,\'94 Hogan says.\
\
\'93Come on up to the room, Jerry,\'94 Jack says.\
\
Upstairs Jack sat on the bed with his head in his hands.\
\
\'93Ain\'92t it a life?\'94 Jack says.\
\
Hogan brought in a quart of liquor and two glasses.\
\
\'93Want some ginger-ale?\'94\
\
\'93What do you think I want to do, get sick?\'94\
\
\'93I just asked you,\'94 said Hogan.\
\
\'93Have a drink?\'94 said Jack.\
\
\'93No, thanks,\'94 said Hogan. He went out.\
\
\'93How about you, Jerry?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll have one with you,\'94 I said.\
\
Jack poured out a couple of drinks. \'93Now,\'94 he said, \'93I want to take it\
slow and easy.\'94\
\
\'93Put some water in it,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 Jack said. \'93I guess that\'92s better.\'94\
\
We had a couple of drinks without saying anything. Jack started to pour\
me another.\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said, \'93that\'92s all I want.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 Jack said. He poured himself out another big shot and put\
water in it. He was lighting up a little.\
\
\'93That was a fine bunch out here this afternoon,\'94 he said. \'93They don\'92t\
take any chances, those two.\'94\
\
Then a little later, \'93Well,\'94 he says, \'93they\'92re right. What the hell\'92s\
the good in taking chances?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you want another, Jerry?\'94 he said. \'93Come on, drink along with\
me.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t need it, Jack,\'94 I said. \'93I feel all right.\'94\
\
\'93Just have one more,\'94 Jack said. It was softening him up.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said.\
\
Jack poured one for me and another big one for himself.\
\
\'93You know,\'94 he said, \'93I like liquor pretty well. If I hadn\'92t been boxing\
I would have drunk quite a lot.\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You know,\'94 he said, \'93I missed a lot, boxing.\'94\
\
\'93You made plenty of money.\'94\
\
\'93Sure, that\'92s what I\'92m after. You know I miss a lot, Jerry.\'94\
\
\'93How do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he says, \'93like about the wife. And being away from home so much.\
It don\'92t do my girls any good. \'91Whose your old man?\'92 some of those\
society kids\'92ll say to them. \'91My old man\'92s Jack Brennan.\'92 That don\'92t do\
them any good.\'94\
\
\'93Hell,\'94 I said, \'93all that makes a difference is if they got dough.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 says Jack, \'93I got the dough for them all right.\'94\
\
He poured out another drink. The bottle was about empty.\
\
\'93Put some water in it,\'94 I said. Jack poured in some water.\
\
\'93You know,\'94 he says, \'93you ain\'92t got any idea how I miss the wife.\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93You ain\'92t got any idea. You can\'92t have an idea what it\'92s like.\'94\
\
\'93It ought to be better out in the country than in town.\'94\
\
\'93With me now,\'94 Jack said, \'93it don\'92t make any difference where I am. You\
can\'92t have an idea what it\'92s like.\'94\
\
\'93Have another drink.\'94\
\
\'93Am I getting soused? Do I talk funny?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re coming on all right.\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t have an idea what it\'92s like. They ain\'92t anybody can have an\
idea what it\'92s like.\'94\
\
\'93Except the wife,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93She knows,\'94 Jack said. \'93She knows all right. She knows. You bet she\
knows.\'94\
\
\'93Put some water in that,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Jerry,\'94 says Jack, \'93you can\'92t have an idea what it gets to be like.\'94\
\
He was good and drunk. He was looking at me steady. His eyes were sort\
of too steady.\
\
\'93You\'92ll sleep all right,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Listen, Jerry,\'94 Jack says. \'93You want to make some money? Get some money\
down on Walcott.\'94\
\
\'93Yes?\'94\
\
\'93Listen, Jerry,\'94 Jack put down the glass. \'93I\'92m not drunk now, see? You\
know what I\'92m betting on him? Fifty grand.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a lot of dough.\'94\
\
\'93Fifty grand,\'94 Jack says, \'93at two to one. I\'92ll get twenty-five thousand\
bucks. Get some money on him, Jerry.\'94\
\
\'93It sounds good,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93How can I beat him?\'94 Jack says. \'93It ain\'92t crooked. How can I beat him?\
Why not make money on it?\'94\
\
\'93Put some water in that,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92m through after this fight,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m through with it. I got\
to take a beating. Why shouldn\'92t I make money on it?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93I ain\'92t slept for a week,\'94 Jack says. \'93All night I lay awake and worry\
my can off. I can\'92t sleep, Jerry. You ain\'92t got an idea what it\'92s like\
when you can\'92t sleep.\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t sleep. That\'92s all. I just can\'92t sleep. What\'92s the use of taking\
care of yourself all these years when you can\'92t sleep?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s bad.\'94\
\
\'93You ain\'92t got an idea what it\'92s like, Jerry, when you can\'92t sleep.\'94\
\
\'93Put some water in that,\'94 I said.\
\
Well, about eleven o\'92clock Jack passes out and I put him to bed. Finally\
he\'92s so he can\'92t keep from sleeping. I helped him get his clothes off\
and got him into bed.\
\
\'93You\'92ll sleep all right, Jack,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 Jack says, \'93I\'92ll sleep now.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night, Jack,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Good-night, Jerry,\'94 Jack says. \'93You\'92re the only friend I got.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, hell,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You\'92re the only friend I got,\'94 Jack says, \'93the only friend I got.\'94\
\
\'93Go to sleep,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll sleep,\'94 Jack says.\
\
Downstairs Hogan was sitting at the desk in the office reading the\
papers. He looked up. \'93Well, you get your boy friend to sleep?\'94 he asks.\
\
\'93He\'92s off.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s better for him than not sleeping,\'94 Hogan said.\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d have a hell of a time explaining that to these sport writers\
though,\'94 Hogan said.\
\
\'93Well, I\'92m going to bed myself,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Good-night,\'94 said Hogan.\
\
In the morning I came downstairs about eight o\'92clock and got some\
breakfast. Hogan had his two customers out in the barn doing exercises.\
I went out and watched them.\
\
\'93One! Two! Three! Four!\'94 Hogan was counting for them. \'93Hello, Jerry,\'94 he\
said. \'93Is Jack up yet?\'94\
\
\'93No. He\'92s still sleeping.\'94\
\
I went back to my room and packed up to go in to town. About nine-thirty\
I heard Jack getting up in the next room. When I heard him go downstairs\
I went down after him. Jack was sitting at the breakfast table. Hogan\
had come in and was standing beside the table.\
\
\'93How do you feel, Jack?\'94 I asked him.\
\
\'93Not so bad.\'94\
\
\'93Sleep well?\'94 Hogan asked.\
\
\'93I slept all right,\'94 Jack said. \'93I got a thick tongue but I ain\'92t got a\
head.\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 said Hogan. \'93That was good liquor.\'94\
\
\'93Put it on the bill,\'94 Jack says.\
\
\'93What time you want to go into town?\'94 Hogan asked.\
\
\'93Before lunch,\'94 Jack says. \'93The eleven o\'92clock train.\'94\
\
\'93Sit down, Jerry,\'94 Jack said. Hogan went out.\
\
I sat down at the table. Jack was eating a grape-fruit. When he\'92d find a\
seed he\'92d spit it out in the spoon and dump it on the plate.\
\
\'93I guess I was pretty stewed last night,\'94 he started.\
\
\'93You drank some liquor.\'94\
\
\'93I guess I said a lot of fool things.\'94\
\
\'93You weren\'92t bad.\'94\
\
\'93Where\'92s Hogan?\'94 he asked. He was through with the grape-fruit.\
\
\'93He\'92s out in front in the office.\'94\
\
\'93What did I say about betting on the fight?\'94 Jack asked. He was holding\
the spoon and sort of poking at the grape-fruit with it.\
\
The girl came in with some ham and eggs and took away the grape-fruit.\
\
\'93Bring me another glass of milk,\'94 Jack said to her. She went out.\
\
\'93You said you had fifty grand on Walcott,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93That\'92s right,\'94 Jack said.\
\
\'93That\'92s a lot of money.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t feel too good about it,\'94 Jack said.\
\
\'93Something might happen.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Jack said. \'93He wants the title bad. They\'92ll be shooting with him\
all right.\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t ever tell.\'94\
\
\'93No. He wants the title. It\'92s worth a lot of money to him.\'94\
\
\'93Fifty grand is a lot of money,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93It\'92s business,\'94 said Jack. \'93I can\'92t win. You know I can\'92t win anyway.\'94\
\
\'93As long as you\'92re in there you got a chance.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m all through. It\'92s just business.\'94\
\
\'93How do you feel?\'94\
\
\'93Pretty good,\'94 Jack said. \'93The sleep was what I needed.\'94\
\
\'93You might go good.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll give them a good show,\'94 Jack said.\
\
After breakfast Jack called up his wife on the long-distance. He was\
inside the booth telephoning.\
\
\'93That\'92s the first time he\'92s called her up since he\'92s out here,\'94 Hogan\
said.\
\
\'93He writes her every day.\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 Hogan says, \'93a letter only costs two cents.\'94\
\
Hogan said good-by to us and Bruce, the nigger rubber, drove us down to\
the train in the cart.\
\
\'93Good-by, Mr. Brennan,\'94 Bruce said at the train, \'93I sure hope you knock\
his can off.\'94\
\
\'93So long,\'94 Jack said. He gave Bruce two dollars. Bruce had worked on him\
a lot. He looked kind of disappointed. Jack saw me looking at Bruce\
holding the two dollars.\
\
\'93It\'92s all in the bill,\'94 he said. \'93Hogan charged me for the rubbing.\'94\
\
On the train going into town Jack didn\'92t talk. He sat in the corner of\
the seat with his ticket in his hat-band and looked out of the window.\
Once he turned and spoke to me.\
\
\'93I told the wife I\'92d take a room at the Shelby to-night,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s\
just around the corner from the Garden. I can go up to the house\
to-morrow morning.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a good idea,\'94 I said. \'93Your wife ever see you fight, Jack?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Jack says. \'93She never seen me fight.\'94\
\
I thought he must be figuring on taking an awful beating if he doesn\'92t\
want to go home afterward. In town we took a taxi up to the Shelby. A\
boy came out and took our bags and we went in to the desk.\
\
\'93How much are the rooms?\'94 Jack asked.\
\
\'93We only have double rooms,\'94 the clerk says. \'93I can give you a nice\
double room for ten dollars.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s too steep.\'94\
\
\'93I can give you a double room for seven dollars.\'94\
\
\'93With a bath?\'94\
\
\'93Certainly.\'94\
\
\'93You might as well bunk with me, Jerry,\'94 Jack says.\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 I said, \'93I\'92ll sleep down at my brother-in-law\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t mean for you to pay it,\'94 Jack says. \'93I just want to get my\
money\'92s worth.\'94\
\
\'93Will you register, please?\'94 the clerk says. He looked at the names.\
\'93Number 238, Mister Brennan.\'94\
\
We went up in the elevator. It was a nice big room with two beds and a\
door opening into a bath-room.\
\
\'93This is pretty good,\'94 Jack says.\
\
The boy who brought us up pulled up the curtains and brought in our\
bags. Jack didn\'92t make any move, so I gave the boy a quarter. We washed\
up and Jack said we better go out and get something to eat.\
\
We ate a lunch at Jimmey Handley\'92s place. Quite a lot of the boys were\
there. When we were about half through eating, John came in and sat down\
with us. Jack didn\'92t talk much.\
\
\'93How are you on the weight, Jack?\'94 John asked him. Jack was putting away\
a pretty good lunch.\
\
\'93I could make it with my clothes on,\'94 Jack said. He never had to worry\
about taking off weight. He was a natural welter-weight and he\'92d never\
gotten fat. He\'92d lost weight out at Hogan\'92s.\
\
\'93Well, that\'92s one thing you never had to worry about,\'94 John said.\
\
\'93That\'92s one thing,\'94 Jack says.\
\
We went around to the garden to weigh in after lunch. The match was made\
at a hundred forty-seven pounds at three o\'92clock. Jack stepped on the\
scales with a towel around him. The bar didn\'92t move. Walcott had just\
weighed and was standing with a lot of people around him.\
\
\'93Let\'92s see what you weigh, Jack,\'94 Freedman, Walcott\'92s manager said.\
\
\'93All right, weigh _him_ then,\'94 Jack jerked his head toward Walcott.\
\
\'93Drop the towel,\'94 Freedman said.\
\
\'93What do you make it?\'94 Jack asked the fellows who were weighing.\
\
\'93One hundred and forty-three pounds,\'94 the fat man who was weighing said.\
\
\'93You\'92re down fine, Jack,\'94 Freedman says.\
\
\'93Weigh _him_,\'94 Jack says.\
\
Walcott came over. He was a blond with wide shoulders and arms like a\
heavyweight. He didn\'92t have much legs. Jack stood about half a head\
taller than he did.\
\
\'93Hello, Jack,\'94 he said. His face was plenty marked up.\
\
\'93Hello,\'94 said Jack. \'93How you feel?\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 Walcott says. He dropped the towel from around his waist and\
stood on the scales. He had the widest shoulders and back you ever saw.\
\
\'93One hundred and forty-six pounds and twelve ounces.\'94\
\
Walcott stepped off and grinned at Jack.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 John says to him, \'93Jack\'92s spotting you about four pounds.\'94\
\
\'93More than that when I come in, kid,\'94 Walcott says. \'93I\'92m going to go and\
eat now.\'94\
\
We went back and Jack got dressed. \'93He\'92s a pretty tough-looking boy,\'94\
Jack says to me.\
\
\'93He looks as though he\'92d been hit plenty of times.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 Jack says. \'93He ain\'92t hard to hit.\'94\
\
\'93Where are you going?\'94 John asked when Jack was dressed.\
\
\'93Back to the hotel,\'94 Jack says. \'93You looked after everything?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 John says. \'93It\'92s all looked after.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to lie down a while,\'94 Jack says.\
\
\'93I\'92ll come around for you about a quarter to seven and we\'92ll go and\
eat.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
Up at the hotel Jack took off his shoes and his coat and lay down for a\
while. I wrote a letter. I looked over a couple of times and Jack wasn\'92t\
sleeping. He was lying perfectly still but every once in a while his\
eyes would open. Finally he sits up.\
\
\'93Want to play some cribbage, Jerry?\'94 he says.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 I said.\
\
He went over to his suitcase and got out the cards and the cribbage\
board. We played cribbage and he won three dollars off me. John knocked\
at the door and came in.\
\
\'93Want to play some cribbage, John?\'94 Jack asked him.\
\
John put his kelly down on the table. It was all wet. His coat was wet\
too.\
\
\'93Is it raining?\'94 Jack asks.\
\
\'93It\'92s pouring,\'94 John says. \'93The taxi I had, got tied up in the traffic\
and I got out and walked.\'94\
\
\'93Come on, play some cribbage,\'94 Jack says.\
\
\'93You ought to go and eat.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 says Jack. \'93I don\'92t want to eat yet.\'94\
\
So they played cribbage for about half an hour and Jack won a dollar and\
a half off him.\
\
\'93Well, I suppose we got to go eat,\'94 Jack says. He went to the window and\
looked out.\
\
\'93Is it still raining?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s eat in the hotel,\'94 John says.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 Jack says, \'93I\'92ll play you once more to see who pays for the\
meal.\'94\
\
After a little while Jack gets up and says, \'93You buy the meal, John,\'94\
and we went downstairs and ate in the big dining-room.\
\
After we ate we went upstairs and Jack played cribbage with John again\
and won two dollars and a half off him. Jack was feeling pretty good.\
John had a bag with him with all his stuff in it. Jack took off his\
shirt and collar and put on a jersey and a sweater, so he wouldn\'92t catch\
cold when he came out, and put his ring clothes and his bathrobe in a\
bag.\
\
\'93You all ready?\'94 John asks him. \'93I\'92ll call up and have them get a taxi.\'94\
\
Pretty soon the telephone rang and they said the taxi was waiting.\
\
We rode down in the elevator and went out through the lobby, and got in\
a taxi and rode around to the Garden. It was raining hard but there was\
a lot of people outside on the streets. The Garden was sold out. As we\
came in on our way to the dressing-room I saw how full it was. It looked\
like half a mile down to the ring. It was all dark. Just the lights over\
the ring.\
\
\'93It\'92s a good thing, with this rain, they didn\'92t try and pull this fight\
in the ball park,\'94 John said.\
\
\'93They got a good crowd,\'94 Jack says.\
\
\'93This is a fight that would draw a lot more than the Garden could hold.\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t tell about the weather,\'94 Jack says.\
\
John came to the door of the dressing-room and poked his head in. Jack\
was sitting there with his bathrobe on, he had his arms folded and was\
looking at the floor. John had a couple of handlers with him. They\
looked over his shoulder. Jack looked up.\
\
\'93Is he in?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93He\'92s just gone down,\'94 John said.\
\
We started down. Walcott was just getting into the ring. The crowd gave\
him a big hand. He climbed through between the ropes and put his two\
fists together and smiled, and shook them at the crowd, first at one\
side of the ring, then at the other, and then sat down. Jack got a good\
hand coming down through the crowd. Jack is Irish and the Irish always\
get a pretty good hand. An Irishman don\'92t draw in New York like a Jew or\
an Italian but they always get a good hand. Jack climbed up and bent\
down to go through the ropes and Walcott came over from his corner and\
pushed the rope down for Jack to go through. The crowd thought that was\
wonderful. Walcott put his hand on Jack\'92s shoulder and they stood there\
just for a second.\
\
\'93So you\'92re going to be one of these popular champions,\'94 Jack says to\
him. \'93Take your goddam hand off my shoulder.\'94\
\
\'93Be yourself,\'94 Walcott says.\
\
This is all great for the crowd. How gentlemanly the boys are before the\
fight! How they wish each other luck!\
\
Solly Freedman came over to our corner while Jack is bandaging his hands\
and John is over in Walcott\'92s corner. Jack puts his thumb through the\
slit in the bandage and then wrapped his hand nice and smooth. I taped\
it around the wrist and twice across the knuckles.\
\
\'93Hey,\'94 Freedman says. \'93Where do you get all that tape?\'94\
\
\'93Feel of it,\'94 Jack says. \'93It\'92s soft, ain\'92t it? Don\'92t be a hick.\'94\
\
Freedman stands there all the time while Jack bandages the other hand,\
and one of the boys that\'92s going to handle him brings the gloves and I\
pull them on and work them around.\
\
\'93Say, Freedman,\'94 Jack asks, \'93what nationality is this Walcott?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Solly says. \'93He\'92s some sort of a Dane.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a Bohemian,\'94 the lad who brought the gloves said.\
\
The referee called them out to the centre of the ring and Jack walks\
out. Walcott comes out smiling. They met and the referee put his arm on\
each of their shoulders.\
\
\'93Hello, popularity,\'94 Jack says to Walcott.\
\
\'93Be yourself.\'94\
\
\'93What do you call yourself \'91Walcott\'92 for?\'94 Jack says. \'93Didn\'92t you know\
he was a nigger?\'94\
\
\'93Listen\'97\'94 says the referee, and he gives them the same old line. Once\
Walcott interrupts him. He grabs Jack\'92s arm and says, \'93Can I hit when\
he\'92s got me like this?\'94\
\
\'93Keep your hands off me,\'94 Jack says. \'93There ain\'92t no moving-pictures of\
this.\'94\
\
They went back to their corners. I lifted the bathrobe off Jack and he\
leaned on the ropes and flexed his knees a couple of times and scuffed\
his shoes in the rosin. The gong rang and Jack turned quick and went\
out. Walcott came toward him and they touched gloves and as soon as\
Walcott dropped his hands Jack jumped his left into his face twice.\
There wasn\'92t anybody ever boxed better than Jack. Walcott was after him,\
going forward all the time with his chin on his chest. He\'92s a hooker and\
he carries his hands pretty low. All he knows is to get in there and\
sock. But every time he gets in there close, Jack has the left hand in\
his face. It\'92s just as though it\'92s automatic. Jack just raises the left\
hand up and it\'92s in Walcott\'92s face. Three or four times Jack brings the\
right over but Walcott gets it on the shoulder or high up on the head.\
He\'92s just like all these hookers. The only thing he\'92s afraid of is\
another one of the same kind. He\'92s covered everywhere you can hurt him.\
He don\'92t care about a left-hand in his face.\
\
After about four rounds Jack has him bleeding bad and his face all cut\
up, but every time Walcott\'92s got in close he\'92s socked so hard he\'92s got\
two big red patches on both sides just below Jack\'92s ribs. Every time he\
gets in close, Jack ties him up, then gets one hand loose and uppercuts\
him, but when Walcott gets his hands loose he socks Jack in the body so\
they can hear it outside in the street. He\'92s a socker.\
\
It goes along like that for three rounds more. They don\'92t talk any.\
They\'92re working all the time. We worked over Jack plenty too, in between\
the rounds. He don\'92t look good at all but he never does much work in the\
ring. He don\'92t move around much and that left-hand is just automatic.\
It\'92s just like it was connected with Walcott\'92s face and Jack just had to\
wish it in every time. Jack is always calm in close and he doesn\'92t waste\
any juice. He knows everything about working in close too and he\'92s\
getting away with a lot of stuff. While they were in our corner I\
watched him tie Walcott up, get his right hand loose, turn it and come\
up with an uppercut that got Walcott\'92s nose with the heel of the glove.\
Walcott was bleeding bad and leaned his nose on Jack\'92s shoulder so as to\
give Jack some of it too, and Jack sort of lifted his shoulder sharp and\
caught him against the nose, and then brought down the right hand and\
did the same thing again.\
\
Walcott was sore as hell. By the time they\'92d gone five rounds he hated\
Jack\'92s guts. Jack wasn\'92t sore; that is, he wasn\'92t any sorer than he\
always was. He certainly did used to make the fellows he fought hate\
boxing. That was why he hated Kid Lewis so. He never got the Kid\'92s goat.\
Kid Lewis always had about three new dirty things Jack couldn\'92t do. Jack\
was as safe as a church all the time he was in there, as long as he was\
strong. He certainly was treating Walcott rough. The funny thing was it\
looked as though Jack was an open classic boxer. That was because he had\
all that stuff too.\
\
After the seventh round Jack says, \'93My left\'92s getting heavy.\'94\
\
From then he started to take a beating. It didn\'92t show at first. But\
instead of him running the fight it was Walcott was running it, instead\
of being safe all the time now he was in trouble. He couldn\'92t keep him\
out with the left hand now. It looked as though it was the same as ever,\
only now instead of Walcott\'92s punches just missing him they were just\
hitting him. He took an awful beating in the body.\
\
\'93What\'92s the round?\'94 Jack asked.\
\
\'93The eleventh.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t stay,\'94 Jack says. \'93My legs are going bad.\'94\
\
Walcott had been just hitting him for a long time. It was like a\
baseball catcher pulls the ball and takes some of the shock off. From\
now on Walcott commenced to land solid. He certainly was a\
socking-machine. Jack was just trying to block everything now. It didn\'92t\
show what an awful beating he was taking. In between the rounds I worked\
on his legs. The muscles would flutter under my hands all the time I was\
rubbing them. He was sick as hell.\
\
\'93How\'92s it go?\'94 he asked John, turning around, his face all swollen.\
\
\'93It\'92s his fight.\'94\
\
\'93I think I can last,\'94 Jack says. \'93I don\'92t want this bohunk to stop me.\'94\
\
It was going just the way he thought it would. He knew he couldn\'92t beat\
Walcott. He wasn\'92t strong any more. He was all right though. His money\
was all right and now he wanted to finish it off right to please\
himself. He didn\'92t want to be knocked out.\
\
The gong rang and we pushed him out. He went out slow. Walcott came\
right out after him. Jack put the left in his face and Walcott took it,\
came in under it and started working on Jack\'92s body. Jack tried to tie\
him up and it was just like trying to hold on to a buzz-saw. Jack broke\
away from it and missed with the right. Walcott clipped him with a\
left-hook and Jack went down. He went down on his hands and knees and\
looked at us. The referee started counting. Jack was watching us and\
shaking his head. At eight John motioned to him. You couldn\'92t hear on\
account of the crowd. Jack got up. The referee had been holding Walcott\
back with one arm while he counted.\
\
When Jack was on his feet Walcott started toward him.\
\
\'93Watch yourself, Jimmy,\'94 I heard Solly Freedman yell to him.\
\
Walcott came up to Jack looking at him. Jack stuck the left hand at him.\
Walcott just shook his head. He backed Jack up against the ropes,\
measured him and then hooked the left very light to the side of Jack\'92s\
head and socked the right into the body as hard as he could sock, just\
as low as he could get it. He must have hit him five inches below the\
belt. I thought the eyes would come out of Jack\'92s head. They stuck way\
out. His mouth come open.\
\
The referee grabbed Walcott. Jack stepped forward. If he went down there\
went fifty thousand bucks. He walked as though all his insides were\
going to fall out.\
\
\'93It wasn\'92t low,\'94 he said. \'93It was a accident.\'94\
\
The crowd were yelling so you couldn\'92t hear anything.\
\
\'93I\'92m all right,\'94 Jack says. They were right in front of us. The referee\
looks at John and then he shakes his head.\
\
\'93Come on, you polak son-of-a-bitch,\'94 Jack says to Walcott.\
\
John was hanging onto the ropes. He had the towel ready to chuck in.\
Jack was standing just a little way out from the ropes. He took a step\
forward. I saw the sweat come out on his face like somebody had squeezed\
it and a big drop went down his nose.\
\
\'93Come on and fight,\'94 Jack says to Walcott.\
\
The referee looked at John and waved Walcott on.\
\
\'93Go in there, you slob,\'94 he says.\
\
Walcott went in. He didn\'92t know what to do either. He never thought Jack\
could have stood it. Jack put the left in his face. There was such a\
hell of a lot of yelling going on. They were right in front of us.\
Walcott hit him twice. Jack\'92s face was the worst thing I ever saw,\'97the\
look on it! He was holding himself and all his body together and it all\
showed on his face. All the time he was thinking and holding his body in\
where it was busted.\
\
Then he started to sock. His face looked awful all the time. He started\
to sock with his hands low down by his side, swinging at Walcott.\
Walcott covered up and Jack was swinging wild at Walcott\'92s head. Then he\
swung the left and it hit Walcott in the groin and the right hit Walcott\
right bang where he\'92d hit Jack. Way low below the belt. Walcott went\
down and grabbed himself there and rolled and twisted around.\
\
The referee grabbed Jack and pushed him toward his corner. John jumps\
into the ring. There was all this yelling going on. The referee was\
talking with the judges and then the announcer got into the ring with\
the megaphone and says, \'93Walcott on a foul.\'94\
\
The referee is talking to John and he says, \'93What could I do? Jack\
wouldn\'92t take the foul. Then when he\'92s groggy he fouls him.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92d lost it anyway,\'94 John says.\
\
Jack\'92s sitting on the chair. I\'92ve got his gloves off and he\'92s holding\
himself in down there with both hands. When he\'92s got something\
supporting it his face doesn\'92t look so bad.\
\
\'93Go over and say you\'92re sorry,\'94 John says into his ear. \'93It\'92ll look\
good.\'94\
\
Jack stands up and the sweat comes out all over his face. I put the\
bathrobe around him and he holds himself in with one hand under the\
bathrobe and goes across the ring. They\'92ve picked Walcott up and they\'92re\
working on him. There\'92re a lot of people in Walcott\'92s corner. Nobody\
speaks to Jack. He leans over Walcott.\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry,\'94 Jack says. \'93I didn\'92t mean to foul you.\'94\
\
Walcott doesn\'92t say anything. He looks too damned sick.\
\
\'93Well, you\'92re the champion now,\'94 Jack says to him. \'93I hope you get a\
hell of a lot of fun out of it.\'94\
\
\'93Leave the kid alone,\'94 Solly Freedman says.\
\
\'93Hello, Solly,\'94 Jack says. \'93I\'92m sorry I fouled your boy.\'94\
\
Freedman just looks at him.\
\
Jack went to his corner walking that funny jerky way and we got him down\
through the ropes and through the reporters\'92 tables and out down the\
aisle. A lot of people want to slap Jack on the back. He goes out\
through all that mob in his bathrobe to the dressing-room. It\'92s a\
popular win for Walcott. That\'92s the way the money was bet in the Garden.\
\
Once we got inside the dressing-room Jack lay down and shut his eyes.\
\
\'93We want to get to the hotel and get a doctor,\'94 John says.\
\
\'93I\'92m all busted inside,\'94 Jack says.\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry as hell, Jack,\'94 John says.\
\
\'93It\'92s all right,\'94 Jack says.\
\
He lies there with his eyes shut.\
\
\'93They certainly tried a nice double-cross,\'94 John said.\
\
\'93Your friends Morgan and Steinfelt,\'94 Jack said. \'93You got nice friends.\'94\
\
He lies there, his eyes are open now. His face has still got that awful\
drawn look.\
\
\'93It\'92s funny how fast you can think when it means that much money,\'94 Jack\
says.\
\
\'93You\'92re some boy, Jack,\'94 John says.\
\
\'93No,\'94 Jack says. \'93It was nothing.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                            A SIMPLE ENQUIRY\
\
\
OUTSIDE, the snow was higher than the window. The sunlight came in\
through the window and shone on a map on the pine-board wall of the hut.\
The sun was high and the light came in over the top of the snow. A\
trench had been cut along the open side of the hut, and each clear day\
the sun, shining on the wall, reflected heat against the snow and\
widened the trench. It was late March. The major sat at a table against\
the wall. His adjutant sat at another table.\
\
Around the major\'92s eyes were two white circles where his snow-glasses\
had protected his face from the sun on the snow. The rest of his face\
had been burned and then tanned and then burned through the tan. His\
nose was swollen and there were edges of loose skin where blisters had\
been. While he worked at the papers he put the fingers of his left hand\
into a saucer of oil and then spread the oil over his face, touching it\
very gently with the tips of his fingers. He was very careful to drain\
his fingers on the edge of the saucer so there was only a film of oil on\
them, and after he had stroked his forehead and his cheeks, he stroked\
his nose very delicately between his fingers. When he had finished he\
stood up, took the saucer of oil and went into the small room of the hut\
where he slept. \'93I\'92m going to take a little sleep,\'94 he said to the\
adjutant. In that army an adjutant is not a commissioned officer. \'93You\
will finish up.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, signor maggiore,\'94 the adjutant answered. He leaned back in his\
chair and yawned. He took a paper-covered book out of the pocket of his\
coat and opened it; then laid it down on the table and lit his pipe. He\
leaned forward on the table to read and puffed at his pipe. Then he\
closed the book and put it back in his pocket. He had too much\
paper-work to get through. He could not enjoy reading until it was done.\
Outside, the sun went behind a mountain and there was no more light on\
the wall of the hut. A soldier came in and put some pine branches,\
chopped into irregular lengths, into the stove. \'93Be soft, Pinin,\'94 the\
adjutant said to him. \'93The major is sleeping.\'94\
\
Pinin was the major\'92s orderly. He was a dark-faced boy, and he fixed the\
stove, putting the pine wood in carefully, shut the door, and went into\
the back of the hut again. The adjutant went on with his papers.\
\
\'93Tonani,\'94 the major called.\
\
\'93Signor maggiore?\'94\
\
\'93Send Pinin in to me.\'94\
\
\'93Pinin!\'94 the adjutant called. Pinin came into the room. \'93The major wants\
you,\'94 the adjutant said.\
\
Pinin walked across the main room of the hut toward the major\'92s door. He\
knocked on the half-opened door. \'93Signor maggiore?\'94\
\
\'93Come in,\'94 the adjutant heard the major say, \'93and shut the door.\'94\
\
Inside the room the major lay on his bunk. Pinin stood beside the bunk.\
The major lay with his head on the rucksack that he had stuffed with\
spare clothing to make a pillow. His long, burned, oiled face looked at\
Pinin. His hands lay on the blankets.\
\
\'93You are nineteen?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93Yes, signor maggiore.\'94\
\
\'93You have ever been in love?\'94\
\
\'93How do you mean, signor maggiore?\'94\
\
\'93In love\'97with a girl?\'94\
\
\'93I have been with girls.\'94\
\
\'93I did not ask that. I asked if you had been in love\'97with a girl.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, signor maggiore.\'94\
\
\'93You are in love with this girl now? You don\'92t write her. I read all\
your letters.\'94\
\
\'93I am in love with her,\'94 Pinin said, \'93but I do not write her.\'94\
\
\'93You are sure of this?\'94\
\
\'93I am sure.\'94\
\
\'93Tonani,\'94 the major said in the same tone of voice, \'93can you hear me\
talking?\'94\
\
There was no answer from the next room.\
\
\'93He can not hear,\'94 the major said. \'93And you are quite sure that you love\
a girl?\'94\
\
\'93I am sure.\'94\
\
\'93And,\'94 the major looked at him quickly, \'93that you are not corrupt?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know what you mean, corrupt.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 the major said. \'93You needn\'92t be superior.\'94\
\
Pinin looked at the floor. The major looked at his brown face, down and\
up him, and at his hands. Then he went on, not smiling, \'93And you don\'92t\
really want\'97\'94 the major paused. Pinin looked at the floor. \'93That your\
great desire isn\'92t really\'97\'94 Pinin looked at the floor. The major leaned\
his head back on the rucksack and smiled. He was really relieved: life\
in the army was too complicated. \'93You\'92re a good boy,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92re a\
good boy, Pinin. But don\'92t be superior and be careful some one else\
doesn\'92t come along and take you.\'94\
\
Pinin stood still beside the bunk.\
\
\'93Don\'92t be afraid,\'94 the major said. His hands were folded on the\
blankets. \'93I won\'92t touch you. You can go back to your platoon if you\
like. But you had better stay on as my servant. You\'92ve less chance of\
being killed.\'94\
\
\'93Do you want anything of me, signor maggiore?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 the major said. \'93Go on and get on with whatever you were doing.\
Leave the door open when you go out.\'94\
\
Pinin went out, leaving the door open. The adjutant looked up at him as\
he walked awkwardly across the room and out the door. Pinin was flushed\
and moved differently than he had moved when he brought in the wood for\
the fire. The adjutant looked after him and smiled. Pinin came in with\
more wood for the stove. The major, lying on his bunk, looking at his\
cloth-covered helmet and his snow-glasses that hung from a nail on the\
wall, heard him walk across the floor. The little devil, he thought, I\
wonder if he lied to me.\
\
\
\
\
                              TEN INDIANS\
\
\
AFTER one Fourth of July, Nick, driving home late from town in the big\
wagon with Joe Garner and his family, passed nine drunken Indians along\
the road. He remembered there were nine because Joe Garner, driving\
along in the dusk, pulled up the horses, jumped down into the road and\
dragged an Indian out of the wheel rut. The Indian had been asleep, face\
down in the sand. Joe dragged him into the bushes and got back up on the\
wagon-box.\
\
\'93That makes nine of them,\'94 Joe said, \'93just between here and the edge of\
town.\'94\
\
\'93Them Indians,\'94 said Mrs. Garner.\
\
Nick was on the back seat with the two Garner boys. He was looking out\
from the back seat to see the Indian where Joe had dragged him alongside\
of the road.\
\
\'93Was it Billy Tabeshaw?\'94 Carl asked.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93His pants looked mighty like Billy.\'94\
\
\'93All Indians wear the same kind of pants.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t see him at all,\'94 Frank said. \'93Pa was down into the road and\
back up again before I seen a thing. I thought he was killing a snake.\'94\
\
\'93Plenty of Indians\'92ll kill snakes to-night, I guess,\'94 Joe Garner said.\
\
\'93Them Indians,\'94 said Mrs. Garner.\
\
They drove along. The road turned off from the main highway and went up\
into the hills. It was hard pulling for the horses and the boys got down\
and walked. The road was sandy. Nick looked back from the top of the\
hill by the schoolhouse. He saw the lights of Petoskey and, off across\
Little Traverse Bay, the lights of Harbour Springs. They climbed back in\
the wagon again.\
\
\'93They ought to put some gravel on that stretch,\'94 Joe Garner said. The\
wagon went along the road through the woods. Joe and Mrs. Garner sat\
close together on the front seat. Nick sat between the two boys. The\
road came out into a clearing.\
\
\'93Right here was where Pa ran over the skunk.\'94\
\
\'93It was further on.\'94\
\
\'93It don\'92t make no difference where it was,\'94 Joe said without turning his\
head. \'93One place is just as good as another to run over a skunk.\'94\
\
\'93I saw two skunks last night,\'94 Nick said.\
\
\'93Where?\'94\
\
\'93Down by the lake. They were looking for dead fish along the beach.\'94\
\
\'93They were coons probably,\'94 Carl said.\
\
\'93They were skunks. I guess I know skunks.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to,\'94 Carl said. \'93You got an Indian girl.\'94\
\
\'93Stop talking that way, Carl,\'94 said Mrs. Garner.\
\
\'93Well, they smell about the same.\'94\
\
Joe Garner laughed.\
\
\'93You stop laughing, Joe,\'94 Mrs. Garner said. \'93I won\'92t have Carl talk that\
way.\'94\
\
\'93Have you got an Indian girl, Nickie?\'94 Joe asked.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93He has too, Pa,\'94 Frank said. \'93Prudence Mitchell\'92s his girl.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s not.\'94\
\
\'93He goes to see her every day.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t.\'94 Nick, sitting between the two boys in the dark, felt hollow\
and happy inside himself to be teased about Prudence Mitchell. \'93She\
ain\'92t my girl,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Listen to him,\'94 said Carl. \'93I see them together every day.\'94\
\
\'93Carl can\'92t get a girl,\'94 his mother said, \'93not even a squaw.\'94\
\
Carl was quiet.\
\
\'93Carl ain\'92t no good with girls,\'94 Frank said.\
\
\'93You shut up.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re all right, Carl,\'94 Joe Garner said. \'93Girls never got a man\
anywhere. Look at your pa.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, that\'92s what you would say,\'94 Mrs. Garner moved close to Joe as the\
wagon jolted. \'93Well, you had plenty of girls in your time.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll bet Pa wouldn\'92t ever have had a squaw for a girl.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you think it,\'94 Joe said. \'93You better watch out to keep Prudie,\
Nick.\'94\
\
His wife whispered to him and Joe laughed.\
\
\'93What you laughing at?\'94 asked Frank.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you say it, Garner,\'94 his wife warned. Joe laughed again.\
\
\'93Nickie can have Prudence,\'94 Joe Garner said. \'93I got a good girl.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the way to talk,\'94 Mrs. Garner said.\
\
The horses were pulling heavily in the sand. Joe reached out in the dark\
with the whip.\
\
\'93Come on, pull into it. You\'92ll have to pull harder than this to-morrow.\'94\
\
They trotted down the long hill, the wagon jolting. At the farmhouse\
everybody got down. Mrs. Garner unlocked the door, went inside, and came\
out with a lamp in her hand. Carl and Nick unloaded the things from the\
back of the wagon. Frank sat on the front seat to drive to the barn and\
put up the horses. Nick went up the steps and opened the kitchen door.\
Mrs. Garner was building a fire in the stove. She turned from pouring\
kerosene on the wood.\
\
\'93Good-by, Mrs. Garner,\'94 Nick said. \'93Thanks for taking me.\'94\
\
\'93Oh shucks, Nickie.\'94\
\
\'93I had a wonderful time.\'94\
\
\'93We like to have you. Won\'92t you stay and eat some supper?\'94\
\
\'93I better go. I think Dad probably waited for me.\'94\
\
\'93Well, get along then. Send Carl up to the house, will you?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night, Nickie.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night, Mrs. Garner.\'94\
\
Nick went out the farmyard and down to the barn. Joe and Frank were\
milking.\
\
\'93Good-night,\'94 Nick said. \'93I had a swell time.\'94\
\
\'93Good-night, Nick,\'94 Joe Garner called. \'93Aren\'92t you going to stay and\
eat?\'94\
\
\'93No, I can\'92t. Will you tell Carl his mother wants him?\'94\
\
\'93All right. Good-night, Nickie.\'94\
\
Nick walked barefoot along the path through the meadow below the barn.\
The path was smooth and the dew was cool on his bare feet. He climbed a\
fence at the end of the meadow, went down through a ravine, his feet wet\
in the swamp mud, and then climbed up through the dry beech woods until\
he saw the lights of the cottage. He climbed over the fence and walked\
around to the front porch. Through the window he saw his father sitting\
by the table, reading in the light from the big lamp. Nick opened the\
door and went in.\
\
\'93Well, Nickie,\'94 his father said, \'93was it a good day?\'94\
\
\'93I had a swell time, Dad. It was a swell Fourth of July.\'94\
\
\'93Are you hungry?\'94\
\
\'93You bet.\'94\
\
\'93What did you do with your shoes?\'94\
\
\'93I left them in the wagon at Garner\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93Come on out to the kitchen.\'94\
\
Nick\'92s father went ahead with the lamp. He stopped and lifted the lid of\
the ice-box. Nick went on into the kitchen. His father brought in a\
piece of cold chicken on a plate and a pitcher of milk and put them on\
the table before Nick. He put down the lamp.\
\
\'93There\'92s some pie too,\'94 he said. \'93Will that hold you?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s grand.\'94\
\
His father sat down in a chair beside the oilcloth-covered table. He\
made a big shadow on the kitchen wall.\
\
\'93Who won the ball game?\'94\
\
\'93Petoskey. Five to three.\'94\
\
His father sat watching him eat and filled his glass from the\
milk-pitcher. Nick drank and wiped his mouth on his napkin. His father\
reached over to the shelf for the pie. He cut Nick a big piece. It was\
huckleberry pie.\
\
\'93What did you do, Dad?\'94\
\
\'93I went out fishing in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93What did you get?\'94\
\
\'93Only perch.\'94\
\
His father sat watching Nick eat the pie.\
\
\'93What did you do this afternoon?\'94 Nick asked.\
\
\'93I went for a walk up by the Indian camp.\'94\
\
\'93Did you see anybody?\'94\
\
\'93The Indians were all in town getting drunk.\'94\
\
\'93Didn\'92t you see anybody at all?\'94\
\
\'93I saw your friend, Prudie.\'94\
\
\'93Where was she?\'94\
\
\'93She was in the woods with Frank Washburn. I ran onto them. They were\
having quite a time.\'94\
\
His father was not looking at him.\
\
\'93What were they doing?\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t stay to find out.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me what they were doing.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 his father said. \'93I just heard them threshing around.\'94\
\
\'93How did you know it was them?\'94\
\
\'93I saw them.\'94\
\
\'93I thought you said you didn\'92t see them.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes, I saw them.\'94\
\
\'93Who was it with her?\'94 Nick asked.\
\
\'93Frank Washburn.\'94\
\
\'93Were they\'97were they\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93Were they what?\'94\
\
\'93Were they happy?\'94\
\
\'93I guess so.\'94\
\
His father got up from the table and went out the kitchen screen door.\
When he came back Nick was looking at his plate. He had been crying.\
\
\'93Have some more?\'94 His father picked up the knife to cut the pie.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Nick.\
\
\'93You better have another piece.\'94\
\
\'93No, I don\'92t want any.\'94\
\
His father cleared off the table.\
\
\'93Where were they in the woods?\'94 Nick asked.\
\
\'93Up back of the camp.\'94 Nick looked at his plate. His father said, \'93You\
better go to bed, Nick.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
Nick went into his room, undressed, and got into bed. He heard his\
father moving around in the living-room. Nick lay in the bed with his\
face in the pillow.\
\
\'93My heart\'92s broken,\'94 he thought. \'93If I feel this way my heart must be\
broken.\'94\
\
After a while he heard his father blow out the lamp and go into his own\
room. He heard a wind come up in the trees outside and felt it come in\
cool through the screen. He lay for a long time with his face in the\
pillow, and after a while he forgot to think about Prudence and finally\
he went to sleep. When he awoke in the night he heard the wind in the\
hemlock trees outside the cottage and the waves of the lake coming in on\
the shore, and he went back to sleep. In the morning there was a big\
wind blowing and the waves were running high up on the beach and he was\
awake a long time before he remembered that his heart was broken.\
\
\
\
\
                            A CANARY FOR ONE\
\
\
THE train passed very quickly a long, red stone house with a garden and\
four thick palm-trees with tables under them in the shade. On the other\
side was the sea. Then there was a cutting through red stone and clay,\
and the sea was only occasionally and far below against rocks.\
\
\'93I bought him in Palermo,\'94 the American lady said. \'93We only had an hour\
ashore and it was Sunday morning. The man wanted to be paid in dollars\
and I gave him a dollar and a half. He really sings very beautifully.\'94\
\
It was very hot in the train and it was very hot in the _lit salon_\
compartment. There was no breeze came through the open window. The\
American lady pulled the window-blind down and there was no more sea,\
even occasionally. On the other side there was glass, then the corridor,\
then an open window, and outside the window were dusty trees and an\
oiled road and flat fields of grapes, with gray-stone hills behind them.\
\
There was smoke from many tall chimneys\'97coming into Marseilles, and the\
train slowed down and followed one track through many others into the\
station. The train stayed twenty-five minutes in the station at\
Marseilles and the American lady bought a copy of _The Daily Mail_ and a\
half-bottle of Evian water. She walked a little way along the station\
platform, but she stayed near the steps of the car because at Cannes,\
where it stopped for twelve minutes, the train had left with no signal\
of departure and she had only gotten on just in time. The American lady\
was a little deaf and she was afraid that perhaps signals of departure\
were given and that she did not hear them.\
\
The train left the station in Marseilles and there was not only the\
switch-yards and the factory smoke but, looking back, the town of\
Marseilles and the harbor with stone hills behind it and the last of the\
sun on the water. As it was getting dark the train passed a farmhouse\
burning in a field. Motor-cars were stopped along the road and bedding\
and things from inside the farmhouse were spread in the field. Many\
people were watching the house burn. After it was dark the train was in\
Avignon. People got on and off. At the news-stand Frenchmen, returning\
to Paris, bought that day\'92s French papers. On the station platform were\
negro soldiers. They wore brown uniforms and were tall and their faces\
shone, close under the electric light. Their faces were very black and\
they were too tall to stare. The train left Avignon station with the\
negroes standing there. A short white sergeant was with them.\
\
Inside the _lit salon_ compartment the porter had pulled down the three\
beds from inside the wall and prepared them for sleeping. In the night\
the American lady lay without sleeping because the train was a _rapide_\
and went very fast and she was afraid of the speed in the night. The\
American lady\'92s bed was the one next to the window. The canary from\
Palermo, a cloth spread over his cage, was out of the draft in the\
corridor that went into the compartment wash-room. There was a blue\
light outside the compartment, and all night the train went very fast\
and the American lady lay awake and waited for a wreck.\
\
In the morning the train was near Paris, and after the American lady had\
come out from the wash-room, looking very wholesome and middle-aged and\
American in spite of not having slept, and had taken the cloth off the\
birdcage and hung the cage in the sun, she went back to the\
restaurant-car for breakfast. When she came back to the _lit salon_\
compartment again, the beds had been pushed back into the wall and made\
into seats, the canary was shaking his feathers in the sunlight that\
came through the open window, and the train was much nearer Paris.\
\
\'93He loves the sun,\'94 the American lady said. \'93He\'92ll sing now in a little\
while.\'94\
\
The canary shook his feathers and pecked into them. \'93I\'92ve always loved\
birds,\'94 the American lady said. \'93I\'92m taking him home to my little girl.\
There\'97he\'92s singing now.\'94\
\
The canary chirped and the feathers on his throat stood out, then he\
dropped his bill and pecked into his feathers again. The train crossed a\
river and passed through a very carefully tended forest. The train\
passed through many outside of Paris towns. There were tram-cars in the\
towns and big advertisements for the Belle Jardini\'e8re and Dubonnet and\
Pernod on the walls toward the train. All that the train passed through\
looked as though it were before breakfast. For several minutes I had not\
listened to the American lady, who was talking to my wife.\
\
\'93Is your husband American too?\'94 asked the lady.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said my wife. \'93We\'92re both Americans.\'94\
\
\'93I thought you were English.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, no.\'94\
\
\'93Perhaps that was because I wore braces,\'94 I said. I had started to say\
suspenders and changed it to braces in the mouth, to keep my English\
character. The American lady did not hear. She was really quite deaf;\
she read lips, and I had not looked toward her. I had looked out of the\
window. She went on talking to my wife.\
\
\'93I\'92m so glad you\'92re Americans. American men make the best husbands,\'94 the\
American lady was saying. \'93That was why we left the Continent, you know.\
My daughter fell in love with a man in Vevey.\'94 She stopped. \'93They were\
simply madly in love.\'94 She stopped again. \'93I took her away, of course.\'94\
\
\'93Did she get over it?\'94 asked my wife.\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so,\'94 said the American lady. \'93She wouldn\'92t eat anything\
and she wouldn\'92t sleep at all. I\'92ve tried so very hard, but she doesn\'92t\
seem to take an interest in anything. She doesn\'92t care about things. I\
couldn\'92t have her marrying a foreigner.\'94 She paused. \'93Some one, a very\
good friend, told me once, \'91No foreigner can make an American girl a\
good husband.\'92\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said my wife, \'93I suppose not.\'94\
\
The American lady admired my wife\'92s travelling-coat, and it turned out\
that the American lady had bought her own clothes for twenty years now\
from the same maison de couturier in the Rue Saint Honor\'e9. They had her\
measurements, and a vendeuse who knew her and her tastes picked the\
dresses out for her and they were sent to America. They came to the\
post-office near where she lived up-town in New York, and the duty was\
never exorbitant because they opened the dresses there in the\
post-office to appraise them and they were always very simple-looking\
and with no gold lace nor ornaments that would make the dresses look\
expensive. Before the present vendeuse, named Th\'e9r\'e8se, there had been\
another vendeuse, named Am\'e9lie. Altogether there had only been these two\
in the twenty years. It had always been the same couturier. Prices,\
however, had gone up. The exchange, though, equalized that. They had her\
daughter\'92s measurements now too. She was grown up and there was not much\
chance of their changing now.\
\
The train was now coming into Paris. The fortifications were levelled\
but grass had not grown. There were many cars standing on tracks\'97brown\
wooden restaurant-cars and brown wooden sleeping-cars that would go to\
Italy at five o\'92clock that night, if that train still left at five; the\
cars were marked Paris-Rome, and cars, with seats on the roofs, that\
went back and forth to the suburbs with, at certain hours, people in all\
the seats and on the roofs, if that were the way it were still done, and\
passing were the white walls and many windows of houses. Nothing had\
eaten any breakfast.\
\
\'93Americans make the best husbands,\'94 the American lady said to my wife. I\
was getting down the bags. \'93American men are the only men in the world\
to marry.\'94\
\
\'93How long ago did you leave Vevey?\'94 asked my wife.\
\
\'93Two years ago this fall. It\'92s her, you know, that I\'92m taking the canary\
to.\'94\
\
\'93Was the man your daughter was in love with a Swiss?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said the American lady. \'93He was from a very good family in Vevey.\
He was going to be an engineer. They met there in Vevey. They used to go\
on long walks together.\'94\
\
\'93I know Vevey,\'94 said my wife. \'93We were there on our honeymoon.\'94\
\
\'93Were you really? That must have been lovely. I had no idea, of course,\
that she\'92d fall in love with him.\'94\
\
\'93It was a very lovely place,\'94 said my wife.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said the American lady. \'93Isn\'92t it lovely? Where did you stop\
there?\'94\
\
\'93We stayed at the Trois Couronnes,\'94 said my wife.\
\
\'93It\'92s such a fine old hotel,\'94 said the American lady.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said my wife. \'93We had a very fine room and in the fall the\
country was lovely.\'94\
\
\'93Were you there in the fall?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said my wife.\
\
We were passing three cars that had been in a wreck. They were\
splintered open and the roofs sagged in.\
\
\'93Look,\'94 I said. \'93There\'92s been a wreck.\'94\
\
The American lady looked and saw the last car. \'93I was afraid of just\
that all night,\'94 she said. \'93I have terrific presentiments about things\
sometimes. I\'92ll never travel on a _rapide_ again at night. There must be\
other comfortable trains that don\'92t go so fast.\'94\
\
Then the train was in the dark of the Gare de Lyons, and then stopped\
and porters came up to the windows. I handed bags through the windows,\
and we were out on the dim longness of the platform, and the American\
lady put herself in charge of one of three men from Cook\'92s who said:\
\'93Just a moment, madame, and I\'92ll look for your name.\'94\
\
The porter brought a truck and piled on the baggage, and my wife said\
good-by and I said good-by to the American lady, whose name had been\
found by the man from Cook\'92s on a typewritten page in a sheaf of\
typewritten pages which he replaced in his pocket.\
\
We followed the porter with the truck down the long cement platform\
beside the train. At the end was a gate and a man took the tickets.\
\
We were returning to Paris to set up separate residences.\
\
\
\
\
                            AN ALPINE IDYLL\
\
\
IT was hot coming down into the valley even in the early morning. The\
sun melted the snow from the skis we were carrying and dried the wood.\
It was spring in the valley but the sun was very hot. We came along the\
road into Galtur carrying our skis and rucksacks. As we passed the\
churchyard a burial was just over. I said, \'93Gr\'fcss Gott,\'94 to the priest\
as he walked past us coming out of the churchyard. The priest bowed.\
\
\'93It\'92s funny a priest never speaks to you,\'94 John said.\
\
\'93You\'92d think they\'92d like to say \'91Gr\'fcss Gott.\'92\'94\
\
\'93They never answer,\'94 John said.\
\
We stopped in the road and watched the sexton shovelling in the new\
earth. A peasant with a black beard and high leather boots stood beside\
the grave. The sexton stopped shovelling and straightened his back. The\
peasant in the high boots took the spade from the sexton and went on\
filling in the grave\'97spreading the earth evenly as a man spreading\
manure in a garden. In the bright May morning the grave-filling looked\
unreal. I could not imagine any one being dead.\
\
\'93Imagine being buried on a day like this,\'94 I said to John.\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t like it.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93we don\'92t have to do it.\'94\
\
We went on up the road past the houses of the town to the inn. We had\
been skiing in the Silvretta for a month, and it was good to be down in\
the valley. In the Silvretta the skiing had been all right, but it was\
spring skiing, the snow was good only in the early morning and again in\
the evening. The rest of the time it was spoiled by the sun. We were\
both tired of the sun. You could not get away from the sun. The only\
shadows were made by rocks or by the hut that was built under the\
protection of a rock beside a glacier, and in the shade the sweat froze\
in your underclothing. You could not sit outside the hut without dark\
glasses. It was pleasant to be burned black but the sun had been very\
tiring. You could not rest in it. I was glad to be down away from snow.\
It was too late in the spring to be up in the Silvretta. I was a little\
tired of skiing. We had stayed too long. I could taste the snow water we\
had been drinking melted off the tin roof of the hut. The taste was a\
part of the way I felt about skiing. I was glad there were other things\
beside skiing, and I was glad to be down, away from the unnatural high\
mountain spring, into this May morning in the valley.\
\
The innkeeper sat on the porch of the inn, his chair tipped back against\
the wall. Beside him sat the cook.\
\
\'93Ski-heil!\'94 said the innkeeper.\
\
\'93Heil!\'94 we said and leaned the skis against the wall and took off our\
packs.\
\
\'93How was it up above?\'94 asked the innkeeper.\
\
\'93Sch\'f6n. A little too much sun.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. There\'92s too much sun this time of year.\'94\
\
The cook sat on in his chair. The innkeeper went in with us and unlocked\
his office and brought out our mail. There was a bundle of letters and\
some papers.\
\
\'93Let\'92s get some beer,\'94 John said.\
\
\'93Good. We\'92ll drink it inside.\'94\
\
The proprietor brought two bottles and we drank them while we read the\
letters.\
\
\'93We better have some more beer,\'94 John said. A girl brought it this time.\
She smiled as she opened the bottles.\
\
\'93Many letters,\'94 she said.\
\
\'93Yes. Many.\'94\
\
\'93Prosit,\'94 she said and went out, taking the empty bottles.\
\
\'93I\'92d forgotten what beer tasted like.\'94\
\
\'93I hadn\'92t,\'94 John said. \'93Up in the hut I used to think about it a lot.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93we\'92ve got it now.\'94\
\
\'93You oughtn\'92t to ever do anything too long.\'94\
\
\'93No. We were up there too long.\'94\
\
\'93Too damn long,\'94 John said. \'93It\'92s no good doing a thing too long.\'94\
\
The sun came through the open window and shone through the beer bottles\
on the table. The bottles were half full. There was a little froth on\
the beer in the bottles, not much because it was very cold. It collared\
up when you poured it into the tall glasses. I looked out of the open\
window at the white road. The trees beside the road were dusty. Beyond\
was a green field and a stream. There were trees along the stream and a\
mill with a water wheel. Through the open side of the mill I saw a long\
log and a saw in it rising and falling. No one seemed to be tending it.\
There were four crows walking in the green field. One crow sat in a tree\
watching. Outside on the porch the cook got off his chair and passed\
into the hall that led back into the kitchen. Inside, the sunlight shone\
through the empty glasses on the table. John was leaning forward with\
his head on his arms.\
\
Through the window I saw two men come up the front steps. They came into\
the drinking room. One was the bearded peasant in the high boots. The\
other was the sexton. They sat down at the table under the window. The\
girl came in and stood by their table. The peasant did not seem to see\
her. He sat with his hands on the table. He wore his old army clothes.\
There were patches on the elbows.\
\
\'93What will it be?\'94 asked the sexton. The peasant did not pay any\
attention.\
\
\'93What will you drink?\'94\
\
\'93Schnapps,\'94 the peasant said.\
\
\'93And a quarter litre of red wine,\'94 the sexton told the girl.\
\
The girl brought the drinks and the peasant drank the schnapps. He\
looked out of the window. The sexton watched him. John had his head\
forward on the table. He was asleep.\
\
The innkeeper came in and went over to the table. He spoke in dialect\
and the sexton answered him. The peasant looked out of the window. The\
innkeeper went out of the room. The peasant stood up. He took a folded\
ten-thousand kronen note out of a leather pocket-book and unfolded it.\
The girl came up.\
\
\'93Alles?\'94 she asked.\
\
\'93Alles,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Let me buy the wine,\'94 the sexton said.\
\
\'93Alles,\'94 the peasant repeated to the girl. She put her hand in the\
pocket of her apron, brought it out full of coins and counted out the\
change. The peasant went out the door. As soon as he was gone the\
innkeeper came into the room again and spoke to the sexton. He sat down\
at the table. They talked in dialect. The sexton was amused. The\
innkeeper was disgusted. The sexton stood up from the table. He was a\
little man with a mustache. He leaned out of the window and looked up\
the road.\
\
\'93There he goes in,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93In the L\'f6wen?\'94\
\
\'93Ja.\'94\
\
They talked again and then the innkeeper came over to our table. The\
innkeeper was a tall man and old. He looked at John asleep.\
\
\'93He\'92s pretty tired.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, we were up early.\'94\
\
\'93Will you want to eat soon?\'94\
\
\'93Any time,\'94 I said. \'93What is there to eat?\'94\
\
\'93Anything you want. The girl will bring the eating-card.\'94\
\
The girl brought the menu. John woke up. The menu was written in ink on\
a card and the card slipped into a wooden paddle.\
\
\'93There\'92s the speise-karte,\'94 I said to John. He looked at it. He was\
still sleepy.\
\
\'93Won\'92t you have a drink with us?\'94 I asked the innkeeper. He sat down.\
\'93Those peasants are beasts,\'94 said the innkeeper.\
\
\'93We saw that one at a funeral coming into town.\'94\
\
\'93That was his wife.\'94\
\
\'93Oh.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a beast. All these peasants are beasts.\'94\
\
\'93How do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t believe it. You wouldn\'92t believe what just happened about\
that one.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me.\'94\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t believe it.\'94 The innkeeper spoke to the sexton. \'93Franz,\
come over here.\'94 The sexton came, bringing his little bottle of wine and\
his glass.\
\
\'93The gentlemen are just come down from the Wiesbadenerh\'fctte,\'94 the\
innkeeper said. We shook hands.\
\
\'93What will you drink?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Nothing,\'94 Franz shook his finger.\
\
\'93Another quarter litre?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93Do you understand dialect?\'94 the innkeeper asked.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s it all about?\'94 John asked.\
\
\'93He\'92s going to tell us about the peasant we saw filling the grave,\
coming into town.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t understand it, anyway,\'94 John said. \'93It goes too fast for me.\'94\
\
\'93That peasant,\'94 the innkeeper said, \'93to-day he brought his wife in to be\
buried. She died last November.\'94\
\
\'93December,\'94 said the sexton.\
\
\'93That makes nothing. She died last December then, and he notified the\
commune.\'94\
\
\'93December eighteenth,\'94 said the sexton.\
\
\'93Anyway, he couldn\'92t bring her over to be buried until the snow was\
gone.\'94\
\
\'93He lives on the other side of the Paznaun,\'94 said the sexton. \'93But he\
belongs to this parish.\'94\
\
\'93He couldn\'92t bring her out at all?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No. He can only come, from where he lives, on skis until the snow\
melts. So to-day he brought her in to be buried and the priest, when he\
looked at her face, didn\'92t want to bury her. You go on and tell it,\'94 he\
said to the sexton. \'93Speak German, not dialect.\'94\
\
\'93It was very funny with the priest,\'94 said the sexton. \'93In the report to\
the commune she died of heart trouble. We knew she had heart trouble\
here. She used to faint in church sometimes. She did not come for a long\
time. She wasn\'92t strong to climb. When the priest uncovered her face he\
asked Olz, \'91Did your wife suffer much?\'92 \'91No,\'92 said Olz. \'91When I came in\
the house she was dead across the bed.\'92\
\
\'93The priest looked at her again. He didn\'92t like it.\
\
\'93\'91How did her face get that way?\'92\
\
\'93\'91I don\'92t know,\'92 Olz said.\
\
\'93\'91You\'92d better find out,\'92 the priest said, and put the blanket back. Olz\
didn\'92t say anything. The priest looked at him. Olz looked back at the\
priest. \'91You want to know?\'92\
\
\'93\'91I must know,\'92 the priest said.\'94\
\
\'93This is where it\'92s good,\'94 the innkeeper said. \'93Listen to this. Go on\
Franz.\'94\
\
\'93\'91Well,\'92 said Olz, \'91when she died I made the report to the commune and I\
put her in the shed across the top of the big wood. When I started to\
use the big wood she was stiff and I put her up against the wall. Her\
mouth was open and when I came into the shed at night to cut up the big\
wood, I hung the lantern from it.\'92\
\
\'93\'91Why did you do that?\'92 asked the priest.\
\
\'93\'91I don\'92t know,\'92 said Olz.\
\
\'93\'91Did you do that many times?\'92\
\
\'93\'91Every time I went to work in the shed at night.\'92\
\
\'93\'91It was very wrong,\'92 said the priest. \'91Did you love your wife?\'92\
\
\'93\'91Ja, I loved her,\'92 Olz said. \'91I loved her fine.\'92\'94\
\
\'93Did you understand it all?\'94 asked the innkeeper. \'93You understand it all\
about his wife?\'94\
\
\'93I heard it.\'94\
\
\'93How about eating?\'94 John asked.\
\
\'93You order,\'94 I said. \'93Do you think it\'92s true?\'94 I asked the innkeeper.\
\
\'93Sure it\'92s true,\'94 he said. \'93These peasants are beasts.\'94\
\
\'93Where did he go now?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s gone to drink at my colleague\'92s, the L\'f6wen.\'94\
\
\'93He didn\'92t want to drink with me,\'94 said the sexton.\
\
\'93He didn\'92t want to drink with me, after he knew about his wife,\'94 said\
the innkeeper.\
\
\'93Say,\'94 said John. \'93How about eating?\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said.\
\
\
\
\
                             A PURSUIT RACE\
\
\
WILLIAM CAMPBELL had been in a pursuit race with a burlesque show ever\
since Pittsburgh. In a pursuit race, in bicycle racing, riders start at\
equal intervals to ride after one another. They ride very fast because\
the race is usually limited to a short distance and if they slow their\
riding another rider who maintains his pace will make up the space that\
separated them equally at the start. As soon as a rider is caught and\
passed he is out of the race and must get down from his bicycle and\
leave the track. If none of the riders are caught the winner of the race\
is the one who has gained the most distance. In most pursuit races, if\
there are only two riders, one of the riders is caught inside of six\
miles. The burlesque show caught William Campbell at Kansas City.\
\
William Campbell had hoped to hold a slight lead over the burlesque show\
until they reached the Pacific coast. As long as he preceded the\
burlesque show as advance man he was being paid. When the burlesque show\
caught up with him he was in bed. He was in bed when the manager of the\
burlesque troupe came into his room and after the manager had gone out\
he decided that he might as well stay in bed. It was very cold in Kansas\
City and he was in no hurry to go out. He did not like Kansas City. He\
reached under the bed for a bottle and drank. It made his stomach feel\
better. Mr. Turner, the manager of the burlesque show, had refused a\
drink.\
\
William Campbell\'92s interview with Mr. Turner had been a little strange.\
Mr. Turner had knocked on the door. Campbell had said: \'93Come in!\'94 When\
Mr. Turner came into the room he saw clothing on a chair, an open\
suitcase, the bottle on a chair beside the bed, and some one lying in\
the bed completely covered by the bed-clothes.\
\
\'93Mister Campbell,\'94 Mr. Turner said.\
\
\'93You can\'92t fire me,\'94 William Campbell said from underneath the covers.\
It was warm and white and close under the covers. \'93You can\'92t fire me\
because I\'92ve got down off my bicycle.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re drunk,\'94 Mr. Turner said.\
\
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 William Campbell said, speaking directly against the sheet\
and feeling the texture with his lips.\
\
\'93You\'92re a fool,\'94 Mr. Turner said. He turned off the electric light. The\
electric light had been burning all night. It was now ten o\'92clock in the\
morning. \'93You\'92re a drunken fool. When did you get into this town?\'94\
\
\'93I got into this town last night,\'94 William Campbell said, speaking\
against the sheet. He found he liked to talk through a sheet. \'93Did you\
ever talk through a sheet?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t try to be funny. You aren\'92t funny.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not being funny. I\'92m just talking through a sheet.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re talking through a sheet all right.\'94\
\
\'93You can go now, Mr. Turner,\'94 Campbell said. \'93I don\'92t work for you any\
more.\'94\
\
\'93You know that anyway.\'94\
\
\'93I know a lot,\'94 William Campbell said. He pulled down the sheet and\
looked at Mr. Turner. \'93I know enough so I don\'92t mind looking at you at\
all. Do you want to hear what I know?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 said William Campbell. \'93Because really I don\'92t know anything at\
all. I was just talking.\'94 He pulled the sheet up over his face again. \'93I\
love it under a sheet,\'94 he said. Mr. Turner stood beside the bed. He was\
a middle-aged man with a large stomach and a bald head and he had many\
things to do. \'93You ought to stop off here, Billy, and take a cure,\'94 he\
said. \'93I\'92ll fix it up if you want to do it.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to take a cure,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93I don\'92t want to\
take a cure at all. I am perfectly happy. All my life I have been\
perfectly happy.\'94\
\
\'93How long have you been this way?\'94\
\
\'93What a question!\'94 William Campbell breathed in and out through the\
sheet.\
\
\'93How long have you been stewed, Billy?\'94\
\
\'93Haven\'92t I done my work?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. I just asked you how long you\'92ve been stewed, Billy.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. But I\'92ve got my wolf back,\'94 he touched the sheet with his\
tongue. \'93I\'92ve had him for a week.\'94\
\
\'93The hell you have.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. My dear wolf. Every time I take a drink he goes outside the\
room. He can\'92t stand alcohol. The poor little fellow.\'94 He moved his\
tongue round and round on the sheet. \'93He\'92s a lovely wolf. He\'92s just like\
he always was.\'94 William Campbell shut his eyes and took a deep breath.\
\
\'93You got to take a cure, Billy,\'94 Mr. Turner said. \'93You won\'92t mind the\
Keeley. It isn\'92t bad.\'94\
\
\'93The Keeley,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93It isn\'92t far from London.\'94 He shut\
his eyes and opened them, moving the eyelashes against the sheet. \'93I\
just love sheets,\'94 he said. He looked at Mr. Turner.\
\
\'93Listen, you think I\'92m drunk.\'94\
\
\'93You _are_ drunk.\'94\
\
\'93No, I\'92m not.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re drunk and you\'92ve had dt\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94 William Campbell held the sheet around his head. \'93Dear sheet,\'94 he\
said. He breathed against it gently. \'93Pretty sheet. You love me, don\'92t\
you, sheet? It\'92s all in the price of the room. Just like in Japan. No,\'94\
he said. \'93Listen Billy, dear Sliding Billy, I have a surprise for you.\
I\'92m not drunk. I\'92m hopped to the eyes.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Mr. Turner.\
\
\'93Take a look.\'94 William Campbell pulled up the right sleeve of his pyjama\
jacket under the sheet, then shoved the right forearm out. \'93Look at\
that.\'94 On the forearm, from just above the wrist to the elbow, were\
small blue circles around tiny dark blue punctures. The circles almost\
touched one another. \'93That\'92s the new development,\'94 William Campbell\
said. \'93I drink a little now once in a while, just to drive the wolf out\
of the room.\'94\
\
\'93They got a cure for that, \'91Sliding Billy\'92\'94 Turner said.\
\
\'93No,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93They haven\'92t got a cure for anything.\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t just quit like that, Billy,\'94 Turner said. He sat on the bed.\
\
\'93Be careful of my sheet,\'94 William Campbell said.\
\
\'93You can\'92t just quit at your age and take to pumping yourself full of\
that stuff just because you got in a jam.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s a law against it. If that\'92s what you mean.\'94\
\
\'93No, I mean you got to fight it out.\'94\
\
Billy Campbell caressed the sheet with his lips and his tongue. \'93Dear\
sheet,\'94 he said. \'93I can kiss this sheet and see right through it at the\
same time.\'94\
\
\'93Cut it out about the sheet. You can\'92t just take to that stuff, Billy.\'94\
\
William Campbell shut his eyes. He was beginning to feel a slight\
nausea. He knew that this nausea would increase steadily, without there\
ever being the relief of sickness, until something were done against it.\
It was at this point that he suggested that Mr. Turner have a drink. Mr.\
Turner declined. William Campbell took a drink from the bottle. It was a\
temporary measure. Mr. Turner watched him. Mr. Turner had been in this\
room much longer than he should have been, he had many things to do;\
although living in daily association with people who used drugs, he had\
a horror of drugs, and he was very fond of William Campbell; he did not\
wish to leave him. He was very sorry for him and he felt a cure might\
help. He knew there were good cures in Kansas City. But he had to go. He\
stood up.\
\
\'93Listen, Billy,\'94 William Campbell said, \'93I want to tell you something.\
You\'92re called \'91Sliding Billy.\'92 That\'92s because you can slide. I\'92m called\
just Billy. That\'92s because I never could slide at all. I can\'92t slide,\
Billy. I can\'92t slide. It just catches. Every time I try it, it catches.\'94\
He shut his eyes. \'93I can\'92t slide, Billy. It\'92s awful when you can\'92t\
slide.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said \'93Sliding Billy\'94 Turner.\
\
\'93Yes, what?\'94 William Campbell looked at him.\
\
\'93You were saying.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said William Campbell. \'93I wasn\'92t saying. It must have been a\
mistake.\'94\
\
\'93You were saying about sliding.\'94\
\
\'93No. It couldn\'92t have been about sliding. But listen, Billy, and I\'92ll\
tell you a secret. Stick to sheets, Billy. Keep away from women and\
horses and, and\'97\'94 he stopped \'93\'97eagles, Billy. If you love horses\
you\'92ll get horse-s\'97, and if you love eagles you\'92ll get eagle-s\'97.\'94 He\
stopped and put his head under the sheet.\
\
\'93I got to go,\'94 said \'93Sliding Billy\'94 Turner.\
\
\'93If you love women you\'92ll get a dose,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93If you\
love horses\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93Yes, you said that.\'94\
\
\'93Said what?\'94\
\
\'93About horses and eagles.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. And if you love sheets.\'94 He breathed on the sheet and stroked\
his nose against it. \'93I don\'92t know about sheets,\'94 he said. \'93I just\
started to love this sheet.\'94\
\
\'93I have to go,\'94 Mr. Turner said. \'93I got a lot to do.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all right,\'94 William Campbell said. \'93Everybody\'92s got to go.\'94\
\
\'93I better go.\'94\
\
\'93All right, you go.\'94\
\
\'93Are you all right, Billy?\'94\
\
\'93I was never so happy in my life.\'94\
\
\'93And you\'92re all right?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m fine. You go along. I\'92ll just lie here for a little while. Around\
noon I\'92ll get up.\'94\
\
But when Mr. Turner came up to William Campbell\'92s room at noon William\
Campbell was sleeping and as Mr. Turner was a man who knew what things\
in life were very valuable he did not wake him.\
\
\
\
\
                            TO-DAY IS FRIDAY\
\
\
    _Three Roman soldiers are in a drinking-place at eleven o\'92clock\
    at night. There are barrels around the wall. Behind the wooden\
    counter is a Hebrew wine-seller. The three Roman soldiers are a\
    little cock-eyed._\
\
_1st Roman Soldier_\'97You tried the red?\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97No, I ain\'92t tried it.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97You better try it.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97All right, George, we\'92ll have a round of the red.\
\
_Hebrew Wine-seller_\'97Here you are, gentlemen. You\'92ll like that. [_He\
sets down an earthenware pitcher that he has filled from one of the\
casks._] That\'92s a nice little wine.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Have a drink of it yourself. [_He turns to the third\
Roman soldier who is leaning on a barrel._] What\'92s the matter with you?\
\
_3d Roman Soldier_\'97I got a gut-ache.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97You\'92ve been drinking water.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Try some of the red.\
\
_3d Soldier_\'97I can\'92t drink the damn stuff. It makes my gut sour.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97You been out here too long.\
\
_3d Soldier_\'97Hell, don\'92t I know it?\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Say, George, can\'92t you give this gentleman something to\
fix up his stomach?\
\
_Hebrew Wine-seller_\'97I got it right here.\
\
    [_The third Roman soldier tastes the cup that the wine-seller\
    has mixed for him._]\
\
_3d Soldier_\'97Hey, what you put in that, camel chips?\
\
_Wine-seller_\'97You drink that right down, Lootenant. That\'92ll fix you up\
right.\
\
_3d Soldier_\'97Well, I couldn\'92t feel any worse.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Take a chance on it. George fixed me up fine the other\
day.\
\
_Wine-seller_\'97You were in bad shape, Lootenant. I know what fixes up a\
bad stomach.\
\
    [_The third Roman soldier drinks the cup down._]\
\
_3d Roman Soldier_\'97Jesus Christ. [_He makes a face._]\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97That false alarm!\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Oh, I don\'92t know. He was pretty good in there to-day.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97Why didn\'92t he come down off the cross?\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97He didn\'92t want to come down off the cross. That\'92s not his\
play.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97Show me a guy that doesn\'92t want to come down off the\
cross.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Aw, hell, you don\'92t know anything about it. Ask George\
there. Did he want to come down off the cross, George?\
\
_Wine-seller_\'97I\'92ll tell you, gentlemen, I wasn\'92t out there. It\'92s a\
thing I haven\'92t taken any interest in.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97Listen, I seen a lot of them\'97here and plenty of other\
places. Any time you show me one that doesn\'92t want to get down off the\
cross when the time comes\'97when the time comes, I mean\'97I\'92ll climb right\
up with him.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97I thought he was pretty good in there to-day.\
\
_3d Soldier_\'97He was all right.\
\
_2d Roman Soldier_\'97You guys don\'92t know what I\'92m talking about. I\'92m not\
saying whether he was good or not. What I mean is, when the time comes.\
When they first start nailing him, there isn\'92t none of them wouldn\'92t\
stop it if they could.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Didn\'92t you follow it, George?\
\
_Wine-seller_\'97No, I didn\'92t take any interest in it, Lootenant.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97I was surprised how he acted.\
\
_3d Soldier_\'97The part I don\'92t like is the nailing them on. You know,\
that must get to you pretty bad.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97It isn\'92t that that\'92s so bad, as when they first lift \'92em\
up. [_He makes a lifting gesture with his two palms together._] When the\
weight starts to pull on \'92em. That\'92s when it gets \'92em.\
\
_3d Roman Soldier_\'97It takes some of them pretty bad.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Ain\'92t I seen \'92em? I seen plenty of them. I tell you, he\
was pretty good in there to-day.\
\
    [_The second Roman soldier smiles at the Hebrew wine-seller._]\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97You\'92re a regular Christer, big boy.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Sure, go on and kid him. But listen while I tell you\
something. He was pretty good in there to-day.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97What about some more wine?\
\
    [_The wine-seller looks up expectantly. The third Roman soldier\
    is sitting with his head down. He does not look well._]\
\
_3d Soldier_\'97I don\'92t want any more.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97Just for two, George.\
\
    [_The wine-seller puts out a pitcher of wine, a size smaller\
    than the last one. He leans forward on the wooden counter._]\
\
_1st Roman Soldier_\'97You see his girl?\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97Wasn\'92t I standing right by her?\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97She\'92s a nice-looker.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97I knew her before he did. [_He winks at the wine-seller._]\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97I used to see her around the town.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97She used to have a lot of stuff. He never brought _her_ no\
good luck.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Oh, he ain\'92t lucky. But he looked pretty good to me in\
there to-day.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97What become of his gang?\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Oh, they faded out. Just the women stuck by him.\
\
_2d Roman Soldier_\'97They were a pretty yellow crowd. When they seen him\
go up there they didn\'92t want any of it.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97The women stuck all right.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97Sure, they stuck all right.\
\
_1st Roman Soldier_\'97You see me slip the old spear into him?\
\
_2d Roman Soldier_\'97You\'92ll get into trouble doing that some day.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97It was the least I could do for him. I\'92ll tell you he\
looked pretty good to me in there to-day.\
\
_Hebrew Wine-seller_\'97Gentlemen, you know I got to close.\
\
_1st Roman Soldier_\'97We\'92ll have one more round.\
\
_2d Roman Soldier_\'97What\'92s the use? This stuff don\'92t get you anywhere.\
Come on, let\'92s go.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Just another round.\
\
_3d Roman Soldier_\'97[_Getting up from the barrel._] No, come on. Let\'92s\
go. I feel like hell to-night.\
\
_1st Soldier_\'97Just one more.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97No, come on. We\'92re going to go. Good-night, George. Put it\
on the bill.\
\
_Wine-seller_\'97Good-night, gentlemen. [_He looks a little worried._] You\
couldn\'92t let me have a little something on account, Lootenant?\
\
_2d Roman Soldier_\'97What the hell, George! Wednesday\'92s pay-day.\
\
_Wine-seller_\'97It\'92s all right, Lootenant. Good-night, gentlemen.\
\
    [_The three Roman soldiers go out the door into the street._]\
\
    [_Outside in the street._]\
\
_2d Roman Soldier_\'97George is a kike just like all the rest of them.\
\
_1st Roman Soldier_\'97Oh, George is a nice fella.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97Everybody\'92s a nice fella to you to-night.\
\
_3d Roman Soldier_\'97Come on, let\'92s go up to the barracks. I feel like\
hell to-night.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97You been out here too long.\
\
_3d Roman Soldier_\'97No, it ain\'92t just that. I feel like hell.\
\
_2d Soldier_\'97You been out here too long. That\'92s all.\
\
                                CURTAIN.\
\
\
\
\
                              BANAL STORY\
\
\
So he ate an orange, slowly spitting out the seeds. Outside, the snow\
was turning to rain. Inside, the electric stove seemed to give no heat\
and rising from his writing-table, he sat down upon the stove. How good\
it felt! Here, at last, was life.\
\
He reached for another orange. Far away in Paris, Mascart had knocked\
Danny Frush cuckoo in the second round. Far off in Mesopotamia,\
twenty-one feet of snow had fallen. Across the world in distant\
Australia, the English cricketers were sharpening up their wickets.\
_There_ was Romance.\
\
Patrons of the arts and letters have discovered _The Forum_, he read. It\
is the guide, philosopher, and friend of the thinking minority. Prize\
short-stories\'97will their authors write our best-sellers of to-morrow?\
\
You will enjoy these warm, homespun, American tales, bits of real life\
on the open ranch, in crowded tenement or comfortable home, and all with\
a healthy undercurrent of humor.\
\
I must read them, he thought.\
\
He read on. Our children\'92s children\'97what of them? Who of them? New\
means must be discovered to find room for us under the sun. Shall this\
be done by war or can it be done by peaceful methods?\
\
Or will we all have to move to Canada?\
\
Our deepest convictions\'97will Science upset them? Our civilization\'97is\
it inferior to older orders of things?\
\
And meanwhile, in the far-off dripping jungles of Yucatan, sounded the\
chopping of the axes of the gum-choppers.\
\
Do we want big men\'97or do we want them cultured? Take Joyce. Take\
President Coolidge. What star must our college students aim at? There is\
Jack Britton. There is Dr. Henry Van Dyke. Can we reconcile the two?\
Take the case of Young Stribling.\
\
And what of our daughters who must make their own Soundings? Nancy\
Hawthorne is obliged to make her own Soundings in the sea of life.\
Bravely and sensibly she faces the problems which come to every girl of\
eighteen.\
\
It was a splendid booklet.\
\
Are you a girl of eighteen? Take the case of Joan of Arc. Take the case\
of Bernard Shaw. Take the case of Betsy Ross.\
\
Think of these things in 1925\'97Was there a risqu\'e9 page in Puritan\
history? Were there two sides to Pocahontas? Did he have a fourth\
dimension?\
\
Are modern paintings\'97and poetry\'97Art? Yes and No. Take Picasso.\
\
Have tramps codes of conduct? Send your mind adventuring.\
\
There is Romance everywhere. _Forum_ writers talk to the point, are\
possessed of humor and wit. But they do not try to be smart and are\
never long-winded.\
\
Live the full life of the mind, exhilarated by new ideas, intoxicated by\
the Romance of the unusual. He laid down the booklet.\
\
And meanwhile, stretched flat on a bed in a darkened room in his house\
in Triana, Manuel Garcia Maera lay with a tube in each lung, drowning\
with the pneumonia. All the papers in Andalucia devoted special\
supplements to his death, which had been expected for some days. Men and\
boys bought full-length colored pictures of him to remember him by, and\
lost the picture they had of him in their memories by looking at the\
lithographs. Bull-fighters were very relieved he was dead, because he\
did always in the bull-ring the things they could only do sometimes.\
They all marched in the rain behind his coffin and there were one\
hundred and forty-seven bull-fighters followed him out to the cemetery,\
where they buried him in the tomb next to Joselito. After the funeral\
every one sat in the caf\'e9s out of the rain, and many colored pictures of\
Maera were sold to men who rolled them up and put them away in their\
pockets.\
\
\
\
\
                              NOW I LAY ME\
\
\
THAT night we lay on the floor in the room and I listened to the\
silk-worms eating. The silk-worms fed in racks of mulberry leaves and\
all night you could hear them eating and a dropping sound in the leaves.\
I myself did not want to sleep because I had been living for a long time\
with the knowledge that if I ever shut my eyes in the dark and let\
myself go, my soul would go out of my body. I had been that way for a\
long time, ever since I had been blown up at night and felt it go out of\
me and go off and then come back. I tried never to think about it, but\
it had started to go since, in the nights, just at the moment of going\
off to sleep, and I could only stop it by a very great effort. So while\
now I am fairly sure that it would not really have gone out, yet then,\
that summer, I was unwilling to make the experiment.\
\
I had different ways of occupying myself while I lay awake. I would\
think of a trout stream I had fished along when I was a boy and fish its\
whole length very carefully in my mind; fishing very carefully under all\
the logs, all the turns of the bank, the deep holes and the clear\
shallow stretches, sometimes catching trout and sometimes losing them. I\
would stop fishing at noon to eat my lunch; sometimes on a log over the\
stream; sometimes on a high bank under a tree, and I always ate my lunch\
very slowly and watched the stream below me while I ate. Often I ran out\
of bait because I would take only ten worms with me in a tobacco tin\
when I started. When I had used them all I had to find more worms, and\
sometimes it was very difficult digging in the bank of the stream where\
the cedar trees kept out the sun and there was no grass but only the\
bare moist earth and often I could find no worms. Always though I found\
some kind of bait, but one time in the swamp I could find no bait at all\
and had to cut up one of the trout I had caught and use him for bait.\
\
Sometimes I found insects in the swamp meadows, in the grass or under\
ferns, and used them. There were beetles and insects with legs like\
grass stems, and grubs in old rotten logs; white grubs with brown\
pinching heads that would not stay on the hook and emptied into nothing\
in the cold water, and wood ticks under logs where sometimes I found\
angle-worms that slipped into the ground as soon as the log was raised.\
Once I used a salamander from under an old log. The salamander was very\
small and neat and agile and a lovely color. He had tiny feet that tried\
to hold on to the hook, and after that one time I never used a\
salamander, although I found them very often. Nor did I use crickets,\
because of the way they acted about the hook.\
\
Sometimes the stream ran through an open meadow, and in the dry grass I\
would catch grasshoppers and use them for bait and sometimes I would\
catch grasshoppers and toss them into the stream and watch them float\
along swimming on the stream and circling on the surface as the current\
took them and then disappear as a trout rose. Sometimes I would fish\
four or five different streams in the night; starting as near as I could\
get to their source and fishing them down stream. When I had finished\
too quickly and the time did not go, I would fish the stream over again,\
starting where it emptied into the lake and fishing back up stream,\
trying for all the trout I had missed coming down. Some nights too I\
made up streams, and some of them were very exciting, and it was like\
being awake and dreaming. Some of those streams I still remember and\
think that I have fished in them, and they are confused with streams I\
really know. I gave them all names and went to them on the train and\
sometimes walked for miles to get to them.\
\
But some nights I could not fish, and on those nights I was cold-awake\
and said my prayers over and over and tried to pray for all the people I\
had ever known. That took up a great amount of time, for if you try to\
remember all the people you have ever known, going back to the earliest\
thing you remember\'97which was, with me, the attic of the house where I\
was born and my mother and father\'92s wedding-cake in a tin box hanging\
from one of the rafters, and, in the attic, jars of snakes and other\
specimens that my father had collected as a boy and preserved in\
alcohol, the alcohol sunken in the jars so the backs of some of the\
snakes and specimens were exposed and had turned white\'97if you thought\
back that far, you remembered a great many people. If you prayed for all\
of them, saying a Hail Mary and an Our Father for each one, it took a\
long time and finally it would be light, and then you could go to sleep,\
if you were in a place where you could sleep in the daylight.\
\
On those nights I tried to remember everything that had ever happened to\
me, starting with just before I went to the war and remembering back\
from one thing to another. I found I could only remember back to that\
attic in my grandfather\'92s house. Then I would start there and remember\
this way again, until I reached the war.\
\
I remembered, after my grandfather died we moved away from that house\
and to a new house designed and built by my mother. Many things that\
were not to be moved were burned in the back-yard and I remember those\
jars from the attic being thrown in the fire, and how they popped in the\
heat and the fire flamed up from the alcohol. I remember the snakes\
burning in the fire in the back-yard. But there were no people in that,\
only things. I could not remember who burned the things even, and I\
would go on until I came to people and then stop and pray for them.\
\
About the new house I remembered how my mother was always cleaning\
things out and making a good clearance. One time when my father was away\
on a hunting trip she made a good thorough cleaning out in the basement\
and burned everything that should not have been there. When my father\
came home and got down from his buggy and hitched the horse, the fire\
was still burning in the road beside the house. I went out to meet him.\
He handed me his shotgun and looked at the fire. \'93What\'92s this?\'94 he\
asked.\
\
\'93I\'92ve been cleaning out the basement, dear,\'94 my mother said from the\
porch. She was standing there smiling, to meet him. My father looked at\
the fire and kicked at something. Then he leaned over and picked\
something out of the ashes. \'93Get a rake, Nick,\'94 he said to me. I went to\
the basement and brought a rake and my father raked very carefully in\
the ashes. He raked out stone axes and stone skinning knives and tools\
for making arrow-heads and pieces of pottery and many arrow-heads. They\
had all been blackened and chipped by the fire. My father raked them all\
out very carefully and spread them on the grass by the road. His shotgun\
in its leather case and his game-bags were on the grass where he had\
left them when he stepped down from the buggy.\
\
\'93Take the gun and the bags in the house, Nick, and bring me a paper,\'94 he\
said. My mother had gone inside the house. I took the shotgun, which was\
heavy to carry and banged against my legs, and the two game-bags and\
started toward the house. \'93Take them one at a time,\'94 my father said.\
\'93Don\'92t try and carry too much at once.\'94 I put down the game-bags and\
took in the shotgun and brought out a newspaper from the pile in my\
father\'92s office. My father spread all the blackened, chipped stone\
implements on the paper and then wrapped them up. \'93The best arrow-heads\
went all to pieces,\'94 he said. He walked into the house with the paper\
package and I stayed outside on the grass with the two game-bags. After\
a while I took them in. In remembering that, there were only two people,\
so I would pray for them both.\
\
Some nights, though, I could not remember my prayers even. I could only\
get as far as \'93On earth as it is in heaven\'94 and then have to start all\
over and be absolutely unable to get past that. Then I would have to\
recognize that I could not remember and give up saying my prayers that\
night and try something else. So on some nights I would try to remember\
all the animals in the world by name and then the birds and then fishes\
and then countries and cities and then kinds of food and the names of\
all the streets I could remember in Chicago, and when I could not\
remember anything at all any more I would just listen. And I do not\
remember a night on which you could not hear things. If I could have a\
light I was not afraid to sleep, because I knew my soul would only go\
out of me if it were dark. So, of course, many nights I was where I\
could have a light and then I slept because I was nearly always tired\
and often very sleepy. And I am sure many times too that I slept without\
knowing it\'97but I never slept knowing it, and on this night I listened\
to the silk-worms. You can hear silk-worms eating very clearly in the\
night and I lay with my eyes open and listened to them.\
\
There was only one other person in the room and he was awake too. I\
listened to him being awake, for a long time. He could not lie as\
quietly as I could because, perhaps, he had not had as much practice\
being awake. We were lying on blankets spread over straw and when he\
moved the straw was noisy, but the silk-worms were not frightened by any\
noise we made and ate on steadily. There were the noises of night seven\
kilometres behind the lines outside but they were different from the\
small noises inside the room in the dark. The other man in the room\
tried lying quietly. Then he moved again. I moved too, so he would know\
I was awake. He had lived ten years in Chicago. They had taken him for a\
soldier in nineteen fourteen when he had come back to visit his family,\
and they had given him to me for an orderly because he spoke English. I\
heard him listening, so I moved again in the blankets.\
\
\'93Can\'92t you sleep, Signor Tenente?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t sleep, either.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I can\'92t sleep.\'94\
\
\'93You feel all right?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. I feel good. I just can\'92t sleep.\'94\
\
\'93You want to talk a while?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Sure. What can you talk about in this damn place.\'94\
\
\'93This place is pretty good,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 he said. \'93It\'92s all right.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me about out in Chicago,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 he said, \'93I told you all that once.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me about how you got married.\'94\
\
\'93I told you that.\'94\
\
\'93Was the letter you got Monday\'97from her?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. She writes me all the time. She\'92s making good money with the\
place.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll have a nice place when you go back.\'94\
\
\'93Sure. She runs it fine. She\'92s making a lot of money.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you think we\'92ll wake them up, talking?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No. They can\'92t hear. Anyway, they sleep like pigs. I\'92m different,\'94 he\
said. \'93I\'92m nervous.\'94\
\
\'93Talk quiet,\'94 I said. \'93Want a smoke?\'94\
\
We smoked skilfully in the dark.\
\
\'93You don\'92t smoke much, Signor Tenente.\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92ve just about cut it out.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he said, \'93it don\'92t do you any good and I suppose you get so you\
don\'92t miss it. Did you ever hear a blind man won\'92t smoke because he\
can\'92t see the smoke come out?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe it.\'94\
\
\'93I think it\'92s all bull, myself,\'94 he said. \'93I just heard it somewhere.\
You know how you hear things.\'94\
\
We were both quiet and I listened to the silk-worms.\
\
\'93You hear those damn silk-worms?\'94 he asked. \'93You can hear them chew.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s funny,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Say, Signor Tenente, is there something really the matter that you\
can\'92t sleep? I never see you sleep. You haven\'92t slept nights ever since\
I been with you.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know, John,\'94 I said. \'93I got in pretty bad shape along early\
last spring and at night it bothers me.\'94\
\
\'93Just like I am,\'94 he said. \'93I shouldn\'92t have ever got in this war. I\'92m\
too nervous.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe it will get better.\'94\
\
\'93Say, Signor Tenente, what did you get in this war for, anyway?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know, John. I wanted to, then.\'94\
\
\'93Wanted to,\'94 he said. \'93That\'92s a hell of a reason.\'94\
\
\'93We oughtn\'92t to talk out loud,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93They sleep just like pigs,\'94 he said. \'93They can\'92t understand the English\
language, anyway. They don\'92t know a damn thing. What are you going to do\
when it\'92s over and we go back to the States?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll get a job on a paper.\'94\
\
\'93In Chicago?\'94\
\
\'93Maybe.\'94\
\
\'93Do you ever read what this fellow Brisbane writes? My wife cuts it out\
for me and sends it to me.\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93Did you ever meet him?\'94\
\
\'93No, but I\'92ve seen him.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to meet that fellow. He\'92s a fine writer. My wife don\'92t read\
English but she takes the paper just like when I was home and she cuts\
out the editorials and the sport page and sends them to me.\'94\
\
\'93How are your kids?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re fine. One of the girls is in the fourth grade now. You know,\
Signor Tenente, if I didn\'92t have the kids I wouldn\'92t be your orderly\
now. They\'92d have made me stay in the line all the time.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m glad you\'92ve got them.\'94\
\
\'93So am I. They\'92re fine kids but I want a boy. Three girls and no boy.\
That\'92s a hell of a note.\'94\
\
\'93Why don\'92t you try and go to sleep.\'94\
\
\'93No, I can\'92t sleep now. I\'92m wide awake now, Signor Tenente. Say, I\'92m\
worried about you not sleeping though.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92ll be all right, John.\'94\
\
\'93Imagine a young fellow like you not to sleep.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll get all right. It just takes a while.\'94\
\
\'93You got to get all right. A man can\'92t get along that don\'92t sleep. Do\
you worry about anything? You got anything on your mind?\'94\
\
\'93No, John, I don\'92t think so.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to get married, Signor Tenente. Then you wouldn\'92t worry.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to get married. Why don\'92t you pick out some nice Italian girl\
with plenty of money. You could get any one you want. You\'92re young and\
you got good decorations and you look nice. You been wounded a couple of\
times.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t talk the language well enough.\'94\
\
\'93You talk it fine. To hell with talking the language. You don\'92t have to\
talk to them. Marry them.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll think about it.\'94\
\
\'93You know some girls, don\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93Well, you marry the one with the most money. Over here, the way they\'92re\
brought up, they\'92ll all make you a good wife.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll think about it.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t think about it, Signor Tenente. Do it.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93A man ought to be married. You\'92ll never regret it. Every man ought to\
be married.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. \'93Let\'92s try and sleep a while.\'94\
\
\'93All right, Signor Tenente. I\'92ll try it again. But you remember what I\
said.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll remember it,\'94 I said. \'93Now let\'92s sleep a while, John.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 he said. \'93I hope you sleep, Signor Tenente.\'94\
\
I heard him roll in his blankets on the straw and then he was very quiet\
and I listened to him breathing regularly. Then he started to snore. I\
listened to him snore for a long time and then I stopped listening to\
him snore and listened to the silk-worms eating. They ate steadily,\
making a dropping in the leaves. I had a new thing to think about and I\
lay in the dark with my eyes open and thought of all the girls I had\
ever known and what kind of wives they would make. It was a very\
interesting thing to think about and for a while it killed off\
trout-fishing and interfered with my prayers. Finally, though, I went\
back to trout-fishing, because I found that I could remember all the\
streams and there was always something new about them, while the girls,\
after I had thought about them a few times, blurred and I could not call\
them into my mind and finally they all blurred and all became rather the\
same and I gave up thinking about them almost altogether. But I kept on\
with my prayers and I prayed very often for John in the nights and his\
class was removed from active service before the October offensive. I\
was glad he was not there, because he would have been a great worry to\
me. He came to the hospital in Milan to see me several months after and\
was very disappointed that I had not yet married, and I know he would\
feel very badly if he knew that, so far, I have never married. He was\
going back to America and he was very certain about marriage and knew it\
would fix up everything.\
\
\
\
}