{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2865
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fmodern\fcharset0 Courier;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww28260\viewh15600\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 \
                                 ERNEST\
                               HEMINGWAY\
\
\
\
                                The Sun\
                               Also Rises\
\
\
\
\
                        CHARLES SCRIBNER\'92S SONS\
                               _New York_\
\
\
\
\
               Copyright, 1926, Charles Scribner\'92s Sons;\
               renewal copyright, 1954, Ernest Hemingway\
\
\
              _All rights reserved. No part of this book_\
              _may be reproduced in any form without the_\
                _permission of Charles Scribner\'92s Sons._\
\
\
                Printed in the United States of America\
\
\
\
\
                       _This book is for_ HADLEY\
                     _and for_ JOHN HADLEY NICANOR\
\
\
\
\
    \'94You are all a lost generation.\'94\
\
                                 \'97GERTRUDE STEIN _in conversation_\
\
    \'94One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh; but\
    the earth abideth forever. . . . The sun also ariseth, and the\
    sun goeth down, and hasteth to the place where he arose. . . .\
    The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the\
    north; it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth\
    again according to his circuits. . . . All the rivers run into\
    the sea; yet the sea is not full; unto the place from whence the\
    rivers come, thither they return again.\'94\
\
                                                   \'97_Ecclesiastes_\
\
\
\
\
                                 BOOK I\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   1\
\
\
Robert Cohn was once middleweight boxing champion of Princeton. Do not\
think that I am very much impressed by that as a boxing title, but it\
meant a lot to Cohn. He cared nothing for boxing, in fact he disliked\
it, but he learned it painfully and thoroughly to counteract the feeling\
of inferiority and shyness he had felt on being treated as a Jew at\
Princeton. There was a certain inner comfort in knowing he could knock\
down anybody who was snooty to him, although, being very shy and a\
thoroughly nice boy, he never fought except in the gym. He was Spider\
Kelly\'92s star pupil. Spider Kelly taught all his young gentlemen to box\
like featherweights, no matter whether they weighed one hundred and five\
or two hundred and five pounds. But it seemed to fit Cohn. He was really\
very fast. He was so good that Spider promptly overmatched him and got\
his nose permanently flattened. This increased Cohn\'92s distaste for\
boxing, but it gave him a certain satisfaction of some strange sort, and\
it certainly improved his nose. In his last year at Princeton he read\
too much and took to wearing spectacles. I never met any one of his\
class who remembered him. They did not even remember that he was\
middleweight boxing champion.\
\
I mistrust all frank and simple people, especially when their stories\
hold together, and I always had a suspicion that perhaps Robert Cohn had\
never been middleweight boxing champion, and that perhaps a horse had\
stepped on his face, or that maybe his mother had been frightened or\
seen something, or that he had, maybe, bumped into something as a young\
child, but I finally had somebody verify the story from Spider Kelly.\
Spider Kelly not only remembered Cohn. He had often wondered what had\
become of him.\
\
Robert Cohn was a member, through his father, of one of the richest\
Jewish families in New York, and through his mother of one of the\
oldest. At the military school where he prepped for Princeton, and\
played a very good end on the football team, no one had made him\
race-conscious. No one had ever made him feel he was a Jew, and hence\
any different from anybody else, until he went to Princeton. He was a\
nice boy, a friendly boy, and very shy, and it made him bitter. He took\
it out in boxing, and he came out of Princeton with painful\
self-consciousness and the flattened nose, and was married by the first\
girl who was nice to him. He was married five years, had three children,\
lost most of the fifty thousand dollars his father left him, the balance\
of the estate having gone to his mother, hardened into a rather\
unattractive mould under domestic unhappiness with a rich wife; and just\
when he had made up his mind to leave his wife she left him and went off\
with a miniature-painter. As he had been thinking for months about\
leaving his wife and had not done it because it would be too cruel to\
deprive her of himself, her departure was a very healthful shock.\
\
The divorce was arranged and Robert Cohn went out to the Coast. In\
California he fell among literary people and, as he still had a little\
of the fifty thousand left, in a short time he was backing a review of\
the Arts. The review commenced publication in Carmel, California, and\
finished in Provincetown, Massachusetts. By that time Cohn, who had been\
regarded purely as an angel, and whose name had appeared on the\
editorial page merely as a member of the advisory board, had become the\
sole editor. It was his money and he discovered he liked the authority\
of editing. He was sorry when the magazine became too expensive and he\
had to give it up.\
\
By that time, though, he had other things to worry about. He had been\
taken in hand by a lady who hoped to rise with the magazine. She was\
very forceful, and Cohn never had a chance of not being taken in hand.\
Also he was sure that he loved her. When this lady saw that the magazine\
was not going to rise, she became a little disgusted with Cohn and\
decided that she might as well get what there was to get while there was\
still something available, so she urged that they go to Europe, where\
Cohn could write. They came to Europe, where the lady had been educated,\
and stayed three years. During these three years, the first spent in\
travel, the last two in Paris, Robert Cohn had two friends, Braddocks\
and myself. Braddocks was his literary friend. I was his tennis friend.\
\
The lady who had him, her name was Frances, found toward the end of the\
second year that her looks were going, and her attitude toward Robert\
changed from one of careless possession and exploitation to the absolute\
determination that he should marry her. During this time Robert\'92s mother\
had settled an allowance on him, about three hundred dollars a month.\
During two years and a half I do not believe that Robert Cohn looked at\
another woman. He was fairly happy, except that, like many people living\
in Europe, he would rather have been in America, and he had discovered\
writing. He wrote a novel, and it was not really such a bad novel as the\
critics later called it, although it was a very poor novel. He read many\
books, played bridge, played tennis, and boxed at a local gymnasium.\
\
I first became aware of his lady\'92s attitude toward him one night after\
the three of us had dined together. We had dined at l\'92Avenue\'92s and\
afterward went to the Caf\'e9 de Versailles for coffee. We had several\
_fines_ after the coffee, and I said I must be going. Cohn had been\
talking about the two of us going off somewhere on a weekend trip. He\
wanted to get out of town and get in a good walk. I suggested we fly to\
Strasbourg and walk up to Saint Odile, or somewhere or other in Alsace.\
\'93I know a girl in Strasbourg who can show us the town,\'94 I said.\
\
Somebody kicked me under the table. I thought it was accidental and went\
on: \'93She\'92s been there two years and knows everything there is to know\
about the town. She\'92s a swell girl.\'94\
\
I was kicked again under the table and, looking, saw Frances, Robert\'92s\
lady, her chin lifting and her face hardening.\
\
\'93Hell,\'94 I said, \'93why go to Strasbourg? We could go up to Bruges, or to\
the Ardennes.\'94\
\
Cohn looked relieved. I was not kicked again. I said good-night and went\
out. Cohn said he wanted to buy a paper and would walk to the corner\
with me. \'93For God\'92s sake,\'94 he said, \'93why did you say that about that\
girl in Strasbourg for? Didn\'92t you see Frances?\'94\
\
\'93No, why should I? If I know an American girl that lives in Strasbourg\
what the hell is it to Frances?\'94\
\
\'93It doesn\'92t make any difference. Any girl. I couldn\'92t go, that would be\
all.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be silly.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t know Frances. Any girl at all. Didn\'92t you see the way she\
looked?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, well,\'94 I said, \'93let\'92s go to Senlis.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t get sore.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not sore. Senlis is a good place and we can stay at the Grand Cerf\
and take a hike in the woods and come home.\'94\
\
\'93Good, that will be fine.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92ll see you to-morrow at the courts,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Good-night, Jake,\'94 he said, and started back to the caf\'e9.\
\
\'93You forgot to get your paper,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93That\'92s so.\'94 He walked with me up to the kiosque at the corner. \'93You are\
not sore, are you, Jake?\'94 He turned with the paper in his hand.\
\
\'93No, why should I be?\'94\
\
\'93See you at tennis,\'94 he said. I watched him walk back to the caf\'e9\
holding his paper. I rather liked him and evidently she led him quite a\
life.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   2\
\
\
That winter Robert Cohn went over to America with his novel, and it was\
accepted by a fairly good publisher. His going made an awful row I\
heard, and I think that was where Frances lost him, because several\
women were nice to him in New York, and when he came back he was quite\
changed. He was more enthusiastic about America than ever, and he was\
not so simple, and he was not so nice. The publishers had praised his\
novel pretty highly and it rather went to his head. Then several women\
had put themselves out to be nice to him, and his horizons had all\
shifted. For four years his horizon had been absolutely limited to his\
wife. For three years, or almost three years, he had never seen beyond\
Frances. I am sure he had never been in love in his life.\
\
He had married on the rebound from the rotten time he had in college,\
and Frances took him on the rebound from his discovery that he had not\
been everything to his first wife. He was not in love yet but he\
realized that he was an attractive quantity to women, and that the fact\
of a woman caring for him and wanting to live with him was not simply a\
divine miracle. This changed him so that he was not so pleasant to have\
around. Also, playing for higher stakes than he could afford in some\
rather steep bridge games with his New York connections, he had held\
cards and won several hundred dollars. It made him rather vain of his\
bridge game, and he talked several times of how a man could always make\
a living at bridge if he were ever forced to.\
\
Then there was another thing. He had been reading W. H. Hudson. That\
sounds like an innocent occupation, but Cohn had read and reread \'93The\
Purple Land.\'94 \'93The Purple Land\'94 is a very sinister book if read too late\
in life. It recounts splendid imaginary amorous adventures of a perfect\
English gentleman in an intensely romantic land, the scenery of which is\
very well described. For a man to take it at thirty-four as a guide-book\
to what life holds is about as safe as it would be for a man of the same\
age to enter Wall Street direct from a French convent, equipped with a\
complete set of the more practical Alger books. Cohn, I believe, took\
every word of \'93The Purple Land\'94 as literally as though it had been an\
R. G. Dun report. You understand me, he made some reservations, but on\
the whole the book to him was sound. It was all that was needed to set\
him off. I did not realize the extent to which it had set him off until\
one day he came into my office.\
\
\'93Hello, Robert,\'94 I said. \'93Did you come in to cheer me up?\'94\
\
\'93Would you like to go to South America, Jake?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I never wanted to go. Too expensive. You can see all the\
South Americans you want in Paris anyway.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re not the real South Americans.\'94\
\
\'93They look awfully real to me.\'94\
\
I had a boat train to catch with a week\'92s mail stories, and only half of\
them written.\
\
\'93Do you know any dirt?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93None of your exalted connections getting divorces?\'94\
\
\'93No; listen, Jake. If I handled both our expenses, would you go to South\
America with me?\'94\
\
\'93Why me?\'94\
\
\'93You can talk Spanish. And it would be more fun with two of us.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said, \'93I like this town and I go to Spain in the summer-time.\'94\
\
\'93All my life I\'92ve wanted to go on a trip like that,\'94 Cohn said. He sat\
down. \'93I\'92ll be too old before I can ever do it.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be a fool,\'94 I said. \'93You can go anywhere you want. You\'92ve got\
plenty of money.\'94\
\
\'93I know. But I can\'92t get started.\'94\
\
\'93Cheer up,\'94 I said. \'93All countries look just like the moving pictures.\'94\
\
But I felt sorry for him. He had it badly.\
\
\'93I can\'92t stand it to think my life is going so fast and I\'92m not really\
living it.\'94\
\
\'93Nobody ever lives their life all the way up except bull-fighters.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not interested in bull-fighters. That\'92s an abnormal life. I want to\
go back in the country in South America. We could have a great trip.\'94\
\
\'93Did you ever think about going to British East Africa to shoot?\'94\
\
\'93No, I wouldn\'92t like that.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d go there with you.\'94\
\
\'93No; that doesn\'92t interest me.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s because you never read a book about it. Go on and read a book\
all full of love affairs with the beautiful shiny black princesses.\'94\
\
\'93I want to go to South America.\'94\
\
He had a hard, Jewish, stubborn streak.\
\
\'93Come on down-stairs and have a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Aren\'92t you working?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. We went down the stairs to the caf\'e9 on the ground floor. I\
had discovered that was the best way to get rid of friends. Once you had\
a drink all you had to say was: \'93Well, I\'92ve got to get back and get off\
some cables,\'94 and it was done. It is very important to discover graceful\
exits like that in the newspaper business, where it is such an important\
part of the ethics that you should never seem to be working. Anyway, we\
went down-stairs to the bar and had a whiskey and soda. Cohn looked at\
the bottles in bins around the wall. \'93This is a good place,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93There\'92s a lot of liquor,\'94 I agreed.\
\
\'93Listen, Jake,\'94 he leaned forward on the bar. \'93Don\'92t you ever get the\
feeling that all your life is going by and you\'92re not taking advantage\
of it? Do you realize you\'92ve lived nearly half the time you have to live\
already?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, every once in a while.\'94\
\
\'93Do you know that in about thirty-five years more we\'92ll be dead?\'94\
\
\'93What the hell, Robert,\'94 I said. \'93What the hell.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m serious.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s one thing I don\'92t worry about,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You ought to.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve had plenty to worry about one time or other. I\'92m through\
worrying.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I want to go to South America.\'94\
\
\'93Listen, Robert, going to another country doesn\'92t make any difference.\
I\'92ve tried all that. You can\'92t get away from yourself by moving from one\
place to another. There\'92s nothing to that.\'94\
\
\'93But you\'92ve never been to South America.\'94\
\
\'93South America hell! If you went there the way you feel now it would be\
exactly the same. This is a good town. Why don\'92t you start living your\
life in Paris?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sick of Paris, and I\'92m sick of the Quarter.\'94\
\
\'93Stay away from the Quarter. Cruise around by yourself and see what\
happens to you.\'94\
\
\'93Nothing happens to me. I walked alone all one night and nothing\
happened except a bicycle cop stopped me and asked to see my papers.\'94\
\
\'93Wasn\'92t the town nice at night?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t care for Paris.\'94\
\
So there you were. I was sorry for him, but it was not a thing you could\
do anything about, because right away you ran up against the two\
stubbornnesses: South America could fix it and he did not like Paris. He\
got the first idea out of a book, and I suppose the second came out of a\
book too.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93I\'92ve got to go up-stairs and get off some cables.\'94\
\
\'93Do you really have to go?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I\'92ve got to get these cables off.\'94\
\
\'93Do you mind if I come up and sit around the office?\'94\
\
\'93No, come on up.\'94\
\
He sat in the outer room and read the papers, and the Editor and\
Publisher and I worked hard for two hours. Then I sorted out the\
carbons, stamped on a by-line, put the stuff in a couple of big manila\
envelopes and rang for a boy to take them to the Gare St. Lazare. I went\
out into the other room and there was Robert Cohn asleep in the big\
chair. He was asleep with his head on his arms. I did not like to wake\
him up, but I wanted to lock the office and shove off. I put my hand on\
his shoulder. He shook his head. \'93I can\'92t do it,\'94 he said, and put his\
head deeper into his arms. \'93I can\'92t do it. Nothing will make me do it.\'94\
\
\'93Robert,\'94 I said, and shook him by the shoulder. He looked up. He smiled\
and blinked.\
\
\'93Did I talk out loud just then?\'94\
\
\'93Something. But it wasn\'92t clear.\'94\
\
\'93God, what a rotten dream!\'94\
\
\'93Did the typewriter put you to sleep?\'94\
\
\'93Guess so. I didn\'92t sleep all last night.\'94\
\
\'93What was the matter?\'94\
\
\'93Talking,\'94 he said.\
\
I could picture it. I have a rotten habit of picturing the bedroom\
scenes of my friends. We went out to the Caf\'e9 Napolitain to have an\
_ap\'e9ritif_ and watch the evening crowd on the Boulevard.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   3\
\
\
It was a warm spring night and I sat at a table on the terrace of the\
Napolitain after Robert had gone, watching it get dark and the electric\
signs come on, and the red and green stop-and-go traffic-signal, and the\
crowd going by, and the horse-cabs clippety-clopping along at the edge\
of the solid taxi traffic, and the _poules_ going by, singly and in\
pairs, looking for the evening meal. I watched a good-looking girl walk\
past the table and watched her go up the street and lost sight of her,\
and watched another, and then saw the first one coming back again. She\
went by once more and I caught her eye, and she came over and sat down\
at the table. The waiter came up.\
\
\'93Well, what will you drink?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Pernod.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s not good for little girls.\'94\
\
\'93Little girl yourself. Dites gar\'e7on, un pernod.\'94\
\
\'93A pernod for me, too.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 she asked. \'93Going on a party?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. Aren\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. You never know in this town.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you like Paris?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Why don\'92t you go somewhere else?\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t anywhere else.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re happy, all right.\'94\
\
\'93Happy, hell!\'94\
\
Pernod is greenish imitation absinthe. When you add water it turns\
milky. It tastes like licorice and it has a good uplift, but it drops\
you just as far. We sat and drank it, and the girl looked sullen.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93are you going to buy me a dinner?\'94\
\
She grinned and I saw why she made a point of not laughing. With her\
mouth closed she was a rather pretty girl. I paid for the saucers and we\
walked out to the street. I hailed a horse-cab and the driver pulled up\
at the curb. Settled back in the slow, smoothly rolling _fiacre_ we\
moved up the Avenue de l\'92Op\'e9ra, passed the locked doors of the shops,\
their windows lighted, the Avenue broad and shiny and almost deserted.\
The cab passed the New York _Herald_ bureau with the window full of\
clocks.\
\
\'93What are all the clocks for?\'94 she asked.\
\
\'93They show the hour all over America.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t kid me.\'94\
\
We turned off the Avenue up the Rue des Pyramides, through the traffic\
of the Rue de Rivoli, and through a dark gate into the Tuileries. She\
cuddled against me and I put my arm around her. She looked up to be\
kissed. She touched me with one hand and I put her hand away.\
\
\'93Never mind.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter? You sick?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Everybody\'92s sick. I\'92m sick, too.\'94\
\
We came out of the Tuileries into the light and crossed the Seine and\
then turned up the Rue des Saints P\'e8res.\
\
\'93You oughtn\'92t to drink pernod if you\'92re sick.\'94\
\
\'93You neither.\'94\
\
\'93It doesn\'92t make any difference with me. It doesn\'92t make any difference\
with a woman.\'94\
\
\'93What are you called?\'94\
\
\'93Georgette. How are you called?\'94\
\
\'93Jacob.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a Flemish name.\'94\
\
\'93American too.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re not Flamand?\'94\
\
\'93No, American.\'94\
\
\'93Good, I detest Flamands.\'94\
\
By this time we were at the restaurant. I called to the _cocher_ to\
stop. We got out and Georgette did not like the looks of the place.\
\'93This is no great thing of a restaurant.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93Maybe you would rather go to Foyot\'92s. Why don\'92t you keep\
the cab and go on?\'94\
\
I had picked her up because of a vague sentimental idea that it would be\
nice to eat with some one. It was a long time since I had dined with a\
_poule_, and I had forgotten how dull it could be. We went into the\
restaurant, passed Madame Lavigne at the desk and into a little room.\
Georgette cheered up a little under the food.\
\
\'93It isn\'92t bad here,\'94 she said. \'93It isn\'92t chic, but the food is all\
right.\'94\
\
\'93Better than you eat in Li\'e8ge.\'94\
\
\'93Brussels, you mean.\'94\
\
We had another bottle of wine and Georgette made a joke. She smiled and\
showed all her bad teeth, and we touched glasses. \'93You\'92re not a bad\
type,\'94 she said. \'93It\'92s a shame you\'92re sick. We get on well. What\'92s the\
matter with you, anyway?\'94\
\
\'93I got hurt in the war,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Oh, that dirty war.\'94\
\
We would probably have gone on and discussed the war and agreed that it\
was in reality a calamity for civilization, and perhaps would have been\
better avoided. I was bored enough. Just then from the other room some\
one called: \'93Barnes! I say, Barnes! Jacob Barnes!\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a friend calling me,\'94 I explained, and went out.\
\
There was Braddocks at a big table with a party: Cohn, Frances Clyne,\
Mrs. Braddocks, several people I did not know.\
\
\'93You\'92re coming to the dance, aren\'92t you?\'94 Braddocks asked.\
\
\'93What dance?\'94\
\
\'93Why, the dancings. Don\'92t you know we\'92ve revived them?\'94 Mrs. Braddocks\
put in.\
\
\'93You must come, Jake. We\'92re all going,\'94 Frances said from the end of the\
table. She was tall and had a smile.\
\
\'93Of course, he\'92s coming,\'94 Braddocks said. \'93Come in and have coffee with\
us, Barnes.\'94\
\
\'93Right.\'94\
\
\'93And bring your friend,\'94 said Mrs. Braddocks laughing. She was a\
Canadian and had all their easy social graces.\
\
\'93Thanks, we\'92ll be in,\'94 I said. I went back to the small room.\
\
\'93Who are your friends?\'94 Georgette asked.\
\
\'93Writers and artists.\'94\
\
\'93There are lots of those on this side of the river.\'94\
\
\'93Too many.\'94\
\
\'93I think so. Still, some of them make money.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes.\'94\
\
We finished the meal and the wine. \'93Come on,\'94 I said. \'93We\'92re going to\
have coffee with the others.\'94\
\
Georgette opened her bag, made a few passes at her face as she looked in\
the little mirror, re-defined her lips with the lipstick, and\
straightened her hat.\
\
\'93Good,\'94 she said.\
\
We went into the room full of people and Braddocks and the men at his\
table stood up.\
\
\'93I wish to present my fianc\'e9e, Mademoiselle Georgette Leblanc,\'94 I said.\
Georgette smiled that wonderful smile, and we shook hands all round.\
\
\'93Are you related to Georgette Leblanc, the singer?\'94 Mrs. Braddocks\
asked.\
\
\'93Connais pas,\'94 Georgette answered.\
\
\'93But you have the same name,\'94 Mrs. Braddocks insisted cordially.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Georgette. \'93Not at all. My name is Hobin.\'94\
\
\'93But Mr. Barnes introduced you as Mademoiselle Georgette Leblanc. Surely\
he did,\'94 insisted Mrs. Braddocks, who in the excitement of talking\
French was liable to have no idea what she was saying.\
\
\'93He\'92s a fool,\'94 Georgette said.\
\
\'93Oh, it was a joke, then,\'94 Mrs. Braddocks said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 said Georgette. \'93To laugh at.\'94\
\
\'93Did you hear that, Henry?\'94 Mrs. Braddocks called down the table to\
Braddocks. \'93Mr. Barnes introduced his fianc\'e9e as Mademoiselle Leblanc,\
and her name is actually Hobin.\'94\
\
\'93Of course, darling. Mademoiselle Hobin, I\'92ve known her for a very long\
time.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, Mademoiselle Hobin,\'94 Frances Clyne called, speaking French very\
rapidly and not seeming so proud and astonished as Mrs. Braddocks at its\
coming out really French. \'93Have you been in Paris long? Do you like it\
here? You love Paris, do you not?\'94\
\
\'93Who\'92s she?\'94 Georgette turned to me. \'93Do I have to talk to her?\'94\
\
She turned to Frances, sitting smiling, her hands folded, her head\
poised on her long neck, her lips pursed ready to start talking again.\
\
\'93No, I don\'92t like Paris. It\'92s expensive and dirty.\'94\
\
\'93Really? I find it so extraordinarily clean. One of the cleanest cities\
in all Europe.\'94\
\
\'93I find it dirty.\'94\
\
\'93How strange! But perhaps you have not been here very long.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been here long enough.\'94\
\
\'93But it does have nice people in it. One must grant that.\'94\
\
Georgette turned to me. \'93You have nice friends.\'94\
\
Frances was a little drunk and would have liked to have kept it up but\
the coffee came, and Lavigne with the liqueurs, and after that we all\
went out and started for Braddocks\'92s dancing-club.\
\
The dancing-club was a _bal musette_ in the Rue de la Montagne Sainte\
Genevi\'e8ve. Five nights a week the working people of the Pantheon quarter\
danced there. One night a week it was the dancing-club. On Monday nights\
it was closed. When we arrived it was quite empty, except for a\
policeman sitting near the door, the wife of the proprietor back of the\
zinc bar, and the proprietor himself. The daughter of the house came\
downstairs as we went in. There were long benches, and tables ran across\
the room, and at the far end a dancing-floor.\
\
\'93I wish people would come earlier,\'94 Braddocks said. The daughter came up\
and wanted to know what we would drink. The proprietor got up on a high\
stool beside the dancing-floor and began to play the accordion. He had a\
string of bells around one of his ankles and beat time with his foot as\
he played. Every one danced. It was hot and we came off the floor\
perspiring.\
\
\'93My God,\'94 Georgette said. \'93What a box to sweat in!\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s hot.\'94\
\
\'93Hot, my God!\'94\
\
\'93Take off your hat.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s a good idea.\'94\
\
Some one asked Georgette to dance, and I went over to the bar. It was\
really very hot and the accordion music was pleasant in the hot night. I\
drank a beer, standing in the doorway and getting the cool breath of\
wind from the street. Two taxis were coming down the steep street. They\
both stopped in front of the Bal. A crowd of young men, some in jerseys\
and some in their shirt-sleeves, got out. I could see their hands and\
newly washed, wavy hair in the light from the door. The policeman\
standing by the door looked at me and smiled. They came in. As they went\
in, under the light I saw white hands, wavy hair, white faces,\
grimacing, gesturing, talking. With them was Brett. She looked very\
lovely and she was very much with them.\
\
One of them saw Georgette and said: \'93I do declare. There is an actual\
harlot. I\'92m going to dance with her, Lett. You watch me.\'94\
\
The tall dark one, called Lett, said: \'93Don\'92t you be rash.\'94\
\
The wavy blond one answered: \'93Don\'92t you worry, dear.\'94 And with them was\
Brett.\
\
I was very angry. Somehow they always made me angry. I know they are\
supposed to be amusing, and you should be tolerant, but I wanted to\
swing on one, any one, anything to shatter that superior, simpering\
composure. Instead, I walked down the street and had a beer at the bar\
at the next Bal. The beer was not good and I had a worse cognac to take\
the taste out of my mouth. When I came back to the Bal there was a crowd\
on the floor and Georgette was dancing with the tall blond youth, who\
danced big-hippily, carrying his head on one side, his eyes lifted as he\
danced. As soon as the music stopped another one of them asked her to\
dance. She had been taken up by them. I knew then that they would all\
dance with her. They are like that.\
\
I sat down at a table. Cohn was sitting there. Frances was dancing. Mrs.\
Braddocks brought up somebody and introduced him as Robert Prentiss. He\
was from New York by way of Chicago, and was a rising new novelist. He\
had some sort of an English accent. I asked him to have a drink.\
\
\'93Thanks so much,\'94 he said, \'93I\'92ve just had one.\'94\
\
\'93Have another.\'94\
\
\'93Thanks, I will then.\'94\
\
We got the daughter of the house over and each had a _fine \'e0 l\'92eau_.\
\
\'93You\'92re from Kansas City, they tell me,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Do you find Paris amusing?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Really?\'94\
\
I was a little drunk. Not drunk in any positive sense but just enough to\
be careless.\
\
\'93For God\'92s sake,\'94 I said, \'93yes. Don\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, how charmingly you get angry,\'94 he said. \'93I wish I had that\
faculty.\'94\
\
I got up and walked over toward the dancing-floor. Mrs. Braddocks\
followed me. \'93Don\'92t be cross with Robert,\'94 she said. \'93He\'92s still only a\
child, you know.\'94\
\
\'93I wasn\'92t cross,\'94 I said. \'93I just thought perhaps I was going to throw\
up.\'94\
\
\'93Your fianc\'e9e is having a great success,\'94 Mrs. Braddocks looked out on\
the floor where Georgette was dancing in the arms of the tall, dark one,\
called Lett.\
\
\'93Isn\'92t she?\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Rather,\'94 said Mrs. Braddocks.\
\
Cohn came up. \'93Come on, Jake,\'94 he said, \'93have a drink.\'94 We walked over\
to the bar. \'93What\'92s the matter with you? You seem all worked up over\
something?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing. This whole show makes me sick is all.\'94\
\
Brett came up to the bar.\
\
\'93Hello, you chaps.\'94\
\
\'93Hello, Brett,\'94 I said. \'93Why aren\'92t you tight?\'94\
\
\'93Never going to get tight any more. I say, give a chap a brandy and\
soda.\'94\
\
She stood holding the glass and I saw Robert Cohn looking at her. He\
looked a great deal as his compatriot must have looked when he saw the\
promised land. Cohn, of course, was much younger. But he had that look\
of eager, deserving expectation.\
\
Brett was damned good-looking. She wore a slipover jersey sweater and a\
tweed skirt, and her hair was brushed back like a boy\'92s. She started all\
that. She was built with curves like the hull of a racing yacht, and you\
missed none of it with that wool jersey.\
\
\'93It\'92s a fine crowd you\'92re with, Brett,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Aren\'92t they lovely? And you, my dear. Where did you get it?\'94\
\
\'93At the Napolitain.\'94\
\
\'93And have you had a lovely evening?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, priceless,\'94 I said.\
\
Brett laughed. \'93It\'92s wrong of you, Jake. It\'92s an insult to all of us.\
Look at Frances there, and Jo.\'94\
\
This for Cohn\'92s benefit.\
\
\'93It\'92s in restraint of trade,\'94 Brett said. She laughed again.\
\
\'93You\'92re wonderfully sober,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes. Aren\'92t I? And when one\'92s with the crowd I\'92m with, one can drink in\
such safety, too.\'94\
\
The music started and Robert Cohn said: \'93Will you dance this with me,\
Lady Brett?\'94\
\
Brett smiled at him. \'93I\'92ve promised to dance this with Jacob,\'94 she\
laughed. \'93You\'92ve a hell of a biblical name, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93How about the next?\'94 asked Cohn.\
\
\'93We\'92re going,\'94 Brett said. \'93We\'92ve a date up at Montmartre.\'94 Dancing, I\
looked over Brett\'92s shoulder and saw Cohn, standing at the bar, still\
watching her.\
\
\'93You\'92ve made a new one there,\'94 I said to her.\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk about it. Poor chap. I never knew it till just now.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, well,\'94 I said. \'93I suppose you like to add them up.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk like a fool.\'94\
\
\'93You do.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, well. What if I do?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing,\'94 I said. We were dancing to the accordion and some one was\
playing the banjo. It was hot and I felt happy. We passed close to\
Georgette dancing with another one of them.\
\
\'93What possessed you to bring her?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know, I just brought her.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re getting damned romantic.\'94\
\
\'93No, bored.\'94\
\
\'93Now?\'94\
\
\'93No, not now.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s get out of here. She\'92s well taken care of.\'94\
\
\'93Do you want to?\'94\
\
\'93Would I ask you if I didn\'92t want to?\'94\
\
We left the floor and I took my coat off a hanger on the wall and put it\
on. Brett stood by the bar. Cohn was talking to her. I stopped at the\
bar and asked them for an envelope. The patronne found one. I took a\
fifty-franc note from my pocket, put it in the envelope, sealed it, and\
handed it to the patronne.\
\
\'93If the girl I came with asks for me, will you give her this?\'94 I said.\
\'93If she goes out with one of those gentlemen, will you save this for\
me?\'94\
\
\'93C\'92est entendu, Monsieur,\'94 the patronne said. \'93You go now? So early?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said.\
\
We started out the door. Cohn was still talking to Brett. She said good\
night and took my arm. \'93Good night, Cohn,\'94 I said. Outside in the street\
we looked for a taxi.\
\
\'93You\'92re going to lose your fifty francs,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Oh, yes.\'94\
\
\'93No taxis.\'94\
\
\'93We could walk up to the Pantheon and get one.\'94\
\
\'93Come on and we\'92ll get a drink in the pub next door and send for one.\'94\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t walk across the street.\'94\
\
\'93Not if I could help it.\'94\
\
We went into the next bar and I sent a waiter for a taxi.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93we\'92re out away from them.\'94\
\
We stood against the tall zinc bar and did not talk and looked at each\
other. The waiter came and said the taxi was outside. Brett pressed my\
hand hard. I gave the waiter a franc and we went out. \'93Where should I\
tell him?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Oh, tell him to drive around.\'94\
\
I told the driver to go to the Parc Montsouris, and got in, and slammed\
the door. Brett was leaning back in the corner, her eyes closed. I got\
in and sat beside her. The cab started with a jerk.\
\
\'93Oh, darling, I\'92ve been so miserable,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   4\
\
\
The taxi went up the hill, passed the lighted square, then on into the\
dark, still climbing, then levelled out onto a dark street behind St.\
Etienne du Mont, went smoothly down the asphalt, passed the trees and\
the standing bus at the Place de la Contrescarpe, then turned onto the\
cobbles of the Rue Mouffetard. There were lighted bars and late open\
shops on each side of the street. We were sitting apart and we jolted\
close together going down the old street. Brett\'92s hat was off. Her head\
was back. I saw her face in the lights from the open shops, then it was\
dark, then I saw her face clearly as we came out on the Avenue des\
Gobelins. The street was torn up and men were working on the car-tracks\
by the light of acetylene flares. Brett\'92s face was white and the long\
line of her neck showed in the bright light of the flares. The street\
was dark again and I kissed her. Our lips were tight together and then\
she turned away and pressed against the corner of the seat, as far away\
as she could get. Her head was down.\
\
\'93Don\'92t touch me,\'94 she said. \'93Please don\'92t touch me.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t stand it.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, Brett.\'94\
\
\'93You mustn\'92t. You must know. I can\'92t stand it, that\'92s all. Oh, darling,\
please understand!\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you love me?\'94\
\
\'93Love you? I simply turn all to jelly when you touch me.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t there anything we can do about it?\'94\
\
She was sitting up now. My arm was around her and she was leaning back\
against me, and we were quite calm. She was looking into my eyes with\
that way she had of looking that made you wonder whether she really saw\
out of her own eyes. They would look on and on after every one else\'92s\
eyes in the world would have stopped looking. She looked as though there\
were nothing on earth she would not look at like that, and really she\
was afraid of so many things.\
\
\'93And there\'92s not a damn thing we could do,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 she said. \'93I don\'92t want to go through that hell again.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92d better keep away from each other.\'94\
\
\'93But, darling, I have to see you. It isn\'92t all that you know.\'94\
\
\'93No, but it always gets to be.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s my fault. Don\'92t we pay for all the things we do, though?\'94\
\
She had been looking into my eyes all the time. Her eyes had different\
depths, sometimes they seemed perfectly flat. Now you could see all the\
way into them.\
\
\'93When I think of the hell I\'92ve put chaps through. I\'92m paying for it all\
now.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk like a fool,\'94 I said. \'93Besides, what happened to me is\
supposed to be funny. I never think about it.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, no. I\'92ll lay you don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Well, let\'92s shut up about it.\'94\
\
\'93I laughed about it too, myself, once.\'94 She wasn\'92t looking at me. \'93A\
friend of my brother\'92s came home that way from Mons. It seemed like a\
hell of a joke. Chaps never know anything, do they?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93Nobody ever knows anything.\'94\
\
I was pretty well through with the subject. At one time or another I had\
probably considered it from most of its various angles, including the\
one that certain injuries or imperfections are a subject of merriment\
while remaining quite serious for the person possessing them.\
\
\'93It\'92s funny,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s very funny. And it\'92s a lot of fun, too, to\
be in love.\'94\
\
\'93Do you think so?\'94 her eyes looked flat again.\
\
\'93I don\'92t mean fun that way. In a way it\'92s an enjoyable feeling.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 she said. \'93I think it\'92s hell on earth.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s good to see each other.\'94\
\
\'93No. I don\'92t think it is.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you want to?\'94\
\
\'93I have to.\'94\
\
We were sitting now like two strangers. On the right was the Parc\
Montsouris. The restaurant where they have the pool of live trout and\
where you can sit and look out over the park was closed and dark. The\
driver leaned his head around.\
\
\'93Where do you want to go?\'94 I asked. Brett turned her head away.\
\
\'93Oh, go to the Select.\'94\
\
\'93Caf\'e9 Select,\'94 I told the driver. \'93Boulevard Montparnasse.\'94 We drove\
straight down, turning around the Lion de Belfort that guards the\
passing Montrouge trams. Brett looked straight ahead. On the Boulevard\
Raspail, with the lights of Montparnasse in sight, Brett said: \'93Would\
you mind very much if I asked you to do something?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be silly.\'94\
\
\'93Kiss me just once more before we get there.\'94\
\
When the taxi stopped I got out and paid. Brett came out putting on her\
hat. She gave me her hand as she stepped down. Her hand was shaky. \'93I\
say, do I look too much of a mess?\'94 She pulled her man\'92s felt hat down\
and started in for the bar. Inside, against the bar and at tables, were\
most of the crowd who a been at the dance.\
\
\'93Hello, you chaps,\'94 Brett said. \'93I\'92m going to have a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, Brett! Brett!\'94 the little Greek portrait-painter, who called\
himself a duke, and whom everybody called Zizi, pushed up to her. \'93I got\
something fine to tell you.\'94\
\
\'93Hello, Zizi,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93I want you to meet a friend,\'94 Zizi said. A fat man came up.\
\
\'93Count Mippipopolous, meet my friend Lady Ashley.\'94\
\
\'93How do you do?\'94 said Brett.\
\
\'93Well, does your Ladyship have a good time here in Paris?\'94 asked Count\
Mippipopolous, who wore an elk\'92s tooth on his watch-chain.\
\
\'93Rather,\'94 said Brett.\
\
\'93Paris is a fine town all right,\'94 said the count. \'93But I guess you have\
pretty big doings yourself over in London.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 said Brett. \'93Enormous.\'94\
\
Braddocks called to me from a table. \'93Barnes,\'94 he said, \'93have a drink.\
That girl of yours got in a frightful row.\'94\
\
\'93What about?\'94\
\
\'93Something the patronne\'92s daughter said. A corking row. She was rather\
splendid, you know. Showed her yellow card and demanded the patronne\'92s\
daughter\'92s too. I say it was a row.\'94\
\
\'93What finally happened?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, some one took her home. Not a bad-looking girl. Wonderful command\
of the idiom. Do stay and have a drink.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I must shove off. Seen Cohn?\'94\
\
\'93He went home with Frances,\'94 Mrs. Braddock put in.\
\
\'93Poor chap, he looks awfully down,\'94 Braddocks said.\
\
\'93I dare say he is,\'94 said Mrs. Braddocks.\
\
\'93I have to shove off,\'94 I said. \'93Good night.\'94\
\
I said good night to Brett at the bar. The count was buying champagne.\
\'93Will you take a glass of wine with us, sir?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93No. Thanks awfully. I have to go.\'94\
\
\'93Really going?\'94 Brett asked.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ve got a rotten headache.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll see you to-morrow?\'94\
\
\'93Come in at the office.\'94\
\
\'93Hardly.\'94\
\
\'93Well, where will I see you?\'94\
\
\'93Anywhere around five o\'92clock.\'94\
\
\'93Make it the other side of town then.\'94\
\
\'93Good. I\'92ll be at the Crillon at five.\'94\
\
\'93Try and be there,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t worry,\'94 Brett said. \'93I\'92ve never let you down, have I?\'94\
\
\'93Heard from Mike?\'94\
\
\'93Letter to-day.\'94\
\
\'93Good night, sir,\'94 said the count.\
\
I went out onto the sidewalk and walked down toward the Boulevard St.\
Michel, passed the tables of the Rotonde, still crowded, looked across\
the street at the Dome, its tables running out to the edge of the\
pavement. Some one waved at me from a table, I did not see who it was\
and went on. I wanted to get home. The Boulevard Montparnasse was\
deserted. Lavigne\'92s was closed tight, and they were stacking the tables\
outside the Closerie des Lilas. I passed Ney\'92s statue standing among the\
new-leaved chestnut-trees in the arc-light. There was a faded purple\
wreath leaning against the base. I stopped and read the inscription:\
from the Bonapartist Groups, some date; I forget. He looked very fine,\
Marshal Ney in his top-boots, gesturing with his sword among the green\
new horse-chestnut leaves. My flat was just across the street, a little\
way down the Boulevard St. Michel.\
\
There was a light in the concierge\'92s room and I knocked on the door and\
she gave me my mail. I wished her good night and went up-stairs. There\
were two letters and some papers. I looked at them under the gas-light\
in the dining-room. The letters were from the States. One was a bank\
statement. It showed a balance of $2432.60. I got out my check-book and\
deducted four checks drawn since the first of the month, and discovered\
I had a balance of $1832.60. I wrote this on the back of the statement.\
The other letter was a wedding announcement. Mr. and Mrs. Aloysius Kirby\
announce the marriage of their daughter Katherine\'97I knew neither the\
girl nor the man she was marrying. They must be circularizing the town.\
It was a funny name. I felt sure I could remember anybody with a name\
like Aloysius. It was a good Catholic name. There was a crest on the\
announcement. Like Zizi the Greek duke. And that count. The count was\
funny. Brett had a title, too. Lady Ashley. To hell with Brett. To hell\
with you, Lady Ashley.\
\
I lit the lamp beside the bed, turned off the gas, and opened the wide\
windows. The bed was far back from the windows, and I sat with the\
windows open and undressed by the bed. Outside a night train, running on\
the street-car tracks, went by carrying vegetables to the markets. They\
were noisy at night when you could not sleep. Undressing, I looked at\
myself in the mirror of the big armoire beside the bed. That was a\
typically French way to furnish a room. Practical, too, I suppose. Of\
all the ways to be wounded. I suppose it was funny. I put on my pajamas\
and got into bed. I had the two bull-fight papers, and I took their\
wrappers off. One was orange. The other yellow. They would both have the\
same news, so whichever I read first would spoil the other. _Le Toril_\
was the better paper, so I started to read it. I read it all the way\
through, including the Petite Correspondance and the Cornigrams. I blew\
out the lamp. Perhaps I would be able to sleep.\
\
My head started to work. The old grievance. Well, it was a rotten way to\
be wounded and flying on a joke front like the Italian. In the Italian\
hospital we were going to form a society. It had a funny name in\
Italian. I wonder what became of the others, the Italians. That was in\
the Ospedale Maggiore in Milano, Padiglione Ponte. The next building was\
the Padiglione Zonda. There was a statue of Ponte, or maybe it was\
Zonda. That was where the liaison colonel came to visit me. That was\
funny. That was about the first funny thing. I was all bandaged up. But\
they had told him about it. Then he made that wonderful speech: \'93You, a\
foreigner, an Englishman\'94 (any foreigner was an Englishman) \'93have given\
more than your life.\'94 What a speech! I would like to have it illuminated\
to hang in the office. He never laughed. He was putting himself in my\
place, I guess. \'93Che mala fortuna! Che mala fortuna!\'94\
\
I never used to realize it, I guess. I try and play it along and just\
not make trouble for people. Probably I never would have had any trouble\
if I hadn\'92t run into Brett when they shipped me to England. I suppose\
she only wanted what she couldn\'92t have. Well, people were that way. To\
hell with people. The Catholic Church had an awfully good way of\
handling all that. Good advice, anyway. Not to think about it. Oh, it\
was swell advice. Try and take it sometime. Try and take it.\
\
I lay awake thinking and my mind jumping around. Then I couldn\'92t keep\
away from it, and I started to think about Brett and all the rest of it\
went away. I was thinking about Brett and my mind stopped jumping around\
and started to go in sort of smooth waves. Then all of a sudden I\
started to cry. Then after a while it was better and I lay in bed and\
listened to the heavy trams go by and way down the street, and then I\
went to sleep.\
\
I woke up. There was a row going on outside. I listened and I thought I\
recognized a voice. I put on a dressing-gown and went to the door. The\
concierge was talking down-stairs. She was very angry. I heard my name\
and called down the stairs.\
\
\'93Is that you, Monsieur Barnes?\'94 the concierge called.\
\
\'93Yes. It\'92s me.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s a species of woman here who\'92s waked the whole street up. What\
kind of a dirty business at this time of night! She says she must see\
you. I\'92ve told her you\'92re asleep.\'94\
\
Then I heard Brett\'92s voice. Half asleep I had been sure it was\
Georgette. I don\'92t know why. She could not have known my address.\
\
\'93Will you send her up, please?\'94\
\
Brett came up the stairs. I saw she was quite drunk. \'93Silly thing to\
do,\'94 she said. \'93Make an awful row. I say, you weren\'92t asleep, were you?\'94\
\
\'93What did you think I was doing?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t know. What time is it?\'94\
\
I looked at the clock. It was half-past four. \'93Had no idea what hour it\
was,\'94 Brett said. \'93I say, can a chap sit down? Don\'92t be cross, darling.\
Just left the count. He brought me here.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s he like?\'94 I was getting brandy and soda and glasses.\
\
\'93Just a little,\'94 said Brett. \'93Don\'92t try and make me drunk. The count?\
Oh, rather. He\'92s quite one of us.\'94\
\
\'93Is he a count?\'94\
\
\'93Here\'92s how. I rather think so, you know. Deserves to be, anyhow. Knows\
hell\'92s own amount about people. Don\'92t know where he got it all. Owns a\
chain of sweetshops in the States.\'94\
\
She sipped at her glass.\
\
\'93Think he called it a chain. Something like that. Linked them all up.\
Told me a little about it. Damned interesting. He\'92s one of us, though.\
Oh, quite. No doubt. One can always tell.\'94\
\
She took another drink.\
\
\'93How do I buck on about all this? You don\'92t mind, do you? He\'92s putting\
up for Zizi, you know.\'94\
\
\'93Is Zizi really a duke, too?\'94\
\
\'93I shouldn\'92t wonder. Greek, you know. Rotten painter. I rather liked the\
count.\'94\
\
\'93Where did you go with him?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, everywhere. He just brought me here now. Offered me ten thousand\
dollars to go to Biarritz with him. How much is that in pounds?\'94\
\
\'93Around two thousand.\'94\
\
\'93Lot of money. I told him I couldn\'92t do it. He was awfully nice about\
it. Told him I knew too many people in Biarritz.\'94\
\
Brett laughed.\
\
\'93I say, you are slow on the up-take,\'94 she said. I had only sipped my\
brandy and soda. I took a long drink.\
\
\'93That\'92s better. Very funny,\'94 Brett said. \'93Then he wanted me to go to\
Cannes with him. Told him I knew too many people in Cannes. Monte Carlo.\
Told him I knew too many people in Monte Carlo. Told him I knew too many\
people everywhere. Quite true, too. So I asked him to bring me here.\'94\
\
She looked at me, her hand on the table, her glass raised. \'93Don\'92t look\
like that,\'94 she said. \'93Told him I was in love with you. True, too. Don\'92t\
look like that. He was damn nice about it. Wants to drive us out to\
dinner to-morrow night. Like to go?\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d better go now.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94\
\
\'93Just wanted to see you. Damned silly idea. Want to get dressed and come\
down? He\'92s got the car just up the street.\'94\
\
\'93The count?\'94\
\
\'93Himself. And a chauffeur in livery. Going to drive me around and have\
breakfast in the Bois. Hampers. Got it all at Zelli\'92s. Dozen bottles of\
Mumms. Tempt you?\'94\
\
\'93I have to work in the morning,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m too far behind you now to\
catch up and be any fun.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be an ass.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t do it.\'94\
\
\'93Right. Send him a tender message?\'94\
\
\'93Anything. Absolutely.\'94\
\
\'93Good night, darling.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be sentimental.\'94\
\
\'93You make me ill.\'94\
\
We kissed good night and Brett shivered. \'93I\'92d better go,\'94 she said.\
\'93Good night, darling.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t have to go.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
We kissed again on the stairs and as I called for the cordon the\
concierge muttered something behind her door. I went back up-stairs and\
from the open window watched Brett walking up the street to the big\
limousine drawn up to the curb under the arc-light. She got in and it\
started off. I turned around. On the table was an empty glass and a\
glass half-full of brandy and soda. I took them both out to the kitchen\
and poured the half-full glass down the sink. I turned off the gas in\
the dining-room, kicked off my slippers sitting on the bed, and got into\
bed. This was Brett, that I had felt like crying about. Then I thought\
of her walking up the street and stepping into the car, as I had last\
seen her, and of course in a little while I felt like hell again. It is\
awfully easy to be hard-boiled about everything in the daytime, but at\
night it is another thing.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   5\
\
\
In the morning I walked down the Boulevard to the rue Soufflot for\
coffee and brioche. It was a fine morning. The horse-chestnut trees in\
the Luxembourg gardens were in bloom. There was the pleasant\
early-morning feeling of a hot day. I read the papers with the coffee\
and then smoked a cigarette. The flower-women were coming up from the\
market and arranging their daily stock. Students went by going up to the\
law school, or down to the Sorbonne. The Boulevard was busy with trams\
and people going to work. I got on an S bus and rode down to the\
Madeleine, standing on the back platform. From the Madeleine I walked\
along the Boulevard des Capucines to the Op\'e9ra, and up to my office. I\
passed the man with the jumping frogs and the man with the boxer toys. I\
stepped aside to avoid walking into the thread with which his girl\
assistant manipulated the boxers. She was standing looking away, the\
thread in her folded hands. The man was urging two tourists to buy.\
Three more tourists had stopped and were watching. I walked on behind a\
man who was pushing a roller that printed the name CINZANO on the\
sidewalk in damp letters. All along people were going to work. It felt\
pleasant to be going to work. I walked across the avenue and turned in\
to my office.\
\
Up-stairs in the office I read the French morning papers, smoked, and\
then sat at the typewriter and got off a good morning\'92s work. At eleven\
o\'92clock I went over to the Quai d\'92Orsay in a taxi and went in and sat\
with about a dozen correspondents, while the foreign-office mouthpiece,\
a young Nouvelle Revue Fran\'e7aise diplomat in horn-rimmed spectacles,\
talked and answered questions for half an hour. The President of the\
Council was in Lyons making a speech, or, rather he was on his way back.\
Several people asked questions to hear themselves talk and there were a\
couple of questions asked by news service men who wanted to know the\
answers. There was no news. I shared a taxi back from the Quai d\'92Orsay\
with Woolsey and Krum.\
\
\'93What do you do nights, Jake?\'94 asked Krum. \'93I never see you around.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I\'92m over in the Quarter.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m coming over some night. The Dingo. That\'92s the great place, isn\'92t\
it?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. That, or this new dive, The Select.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve meant to get over,\'94 said Krum. \'93You know how it is, though, with a\
wife and kids.\'94\
\
\'93Playing any tennis?\'94 Woolsey asked.\
\
\'93Well, no,\'94 said Krum. \'93I can\'92t say I\'92ve played any this year. I\'92ve\
tried to get away, but Sundays it\'92s always rained, and the courts are so\
damned crowded.\'94\
\
\'93The Englishmen all have Saturday off,\'94 Woolsey said.\
\
\'93Lucky beggars,\'94 said Krum. \'93Well, I\'92ll tell you. Some day I\'92m not going\
to be working for an agency. Then I\'92ll have plenty of time to get out in\
the country.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the thing to do. Live out in the country and have a little car.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve been thinking some about getting a car next year.\'94\
\
I banged on the glass. The chauffeur stopped. \'93Here\'92s my street,\'94 I\
said. \'93Come in and have a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Thanks, old man,\'94 Krum said. Woolsey shook his head. \'93I\'92ve got to file\
that line he got off this morning.\'94\
\
I put a two-franc piece in Krum\'92s hand.\
\
\'93You\'92re crazy, Jake,\'94 he said. \'93This is on me.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all on the office, anyway.\'94\
\
\'93Nope. I want to get it.\'94\
\
I waved good-by. Krum put his head out. \'93See you at the lunch on\
Wednesday.\'94\
\
\'93You bet.\'94\
\
I went to the office in the elevator. Robert Cohn was waiting for me.\
\'93Hello, Jake,\'94 he said. \'93Going out to lunch?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Let me see if there is anything new.\'94\
\
\'93Where will we eat?\'94\
\
\'93Anywhere.\'94\
\
I was looking over my desk. \'93Where do you want to eat?\'94\
\
\'93How about Wetzel\'92s? They\'92ve got good hors d\'92\'9cuvres.\'94\
\
In the restaurant we ordered hors d\'92\'9cuvres and beer. The sommelier\
brought the beer, tall, beaded on the outside of the steins, and cold.\
There were a dozen different dishes of hors d\'92\'9cuvres.\
\
\'93Have any fun last night?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No. I don\'92t think so.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s the writing going?\'94\
\
\'93Rotten. I can\'92t get this second book going.\'94\
\
\'93That happens to everybody.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I\'92m sure of that. It gets me worried, though.\'94\
\
\'93Thought any more about going to South America?\'94\
\
\'93I mean that.\'94\
\
\'93Well, why don\'92t you start off?\'94\
\
\'93Frances.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93take her with you.\'94\
\
\'93She wouldn\'92t like it. That isn\'92t the sort of thing she likes. She likes\
a lot of people around.\'94\
\
\'93Tell her to go to hell.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t. I\'92ve got certain obligations to her.\'94\
\
He shoved the sliced cucumbers away and took a pickled herring.\
\
\'93What do you know about Lady Brett Ashley, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93Her name\'92s Lady Ashley. Brett\'92s her own name. She\'92s a nice girl,\'94 I\
said. \'93She\'92s getting a divorce and she\'92s going to marry Mike Campbell.\
He\'92s over in Scotland now. Why?\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s a remarkably attractive woman.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t she?\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s a certain quality about her, a certain fineness. She seems to\
be absolutely fine and straight.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s very nice.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know how to describe the quality,\'94 Cohn said. \'93I suppose it\'92s\
breeding.\'94\
\
\'93You sound as though you liked her pretty well.\'94\
\
\'93I do. I shouldn\'92t wonder if I were in love with her.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s a drunk,\'94 I said. \'93She\'92s in love with Mike Campbell, and she\'92s\
going to marry him. He\'92s going to be rich as hell some day.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe she\'92ll ever marry him.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I just don\'92t believe it. Have you known her a long time?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93She was a V. A. D. in a hospital I was in during the\
war.\'94\
\
\'93She must have been just a kid then.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s thirty-four now.\'94\
\
\'93When did she marry Ashley?\'94\
\
\'93During the war. Her own true love had just kicked off with the\
dysentery.\'94\
\
\'93You talk sort of bitter.\'94\
\
\'93Sorry. I didn\'92t mean to. I was just trying to give you the facts.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe she would marry anybody she didn\'92t love.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said. \'93She\'92s done it twice.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t believe it.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93don\'92t ask me a lot of fool questions if you don\'92t like\
the answers.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t ask you that.\'94\
\
\'93You asked me what I knew about Brett Ashley.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t ask you to insult her.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, go to hell.\'94\
\
He stood up from the table his face white, and stood there white and\
angry behind the little plates of hors d\'92\'9cuvres.\
\
\'93Sit down,\'94 I said. \'93Don\'92t be a fool.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve got to take that back.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, cut out the prep-school stuff.\'94\
\
\'93Take it back.\'94\
\
\'93Sure. Anything. I never heard of Brett Ashley. How\'92s that?\
\
\'93No. Not that. About me going to hell.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, don\'92t go to hell,\'94 I said. \'93Stick around. We\'92re just starting\
lunch.\'94\
\
Cohn smiled again and sat down. He seemed glad to sit down. What the\
hell would he have done if he hadn\'92t sat down? \'93You say such damned\
insulting things, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry. I\'92ve got a nasty tongue. I never mean it when I say nasty\
things.\'94\
\
\'93I know it,\'94 Cohn said. \'93You\'92re really about the best friend I have,\
Jake.\'94\
\
God help you, I thought. \'93Forget what I said,\'94 I said out loud. \'93I\'92m\
sorry.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right. It\'92s fine. I was just sore for a minute.\'94\
\
\'93Good. Let\'92s get something else to eat.\'94\
\
After we finished the lunch we walked up to the Caf\'e9 de la Paix and had\
coffee. I could feel Cohn wanted to bring up Brett again, but I held him\
off it. We talked about one thing and another, and I left him to come to\
the office.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   6\
\
\
At five o\'92clock I was in the Hotel Crillon waiting for Brett. She was\
not there, so I sat down and wrote some letters. They were not very good\
letters but I hoped their being on Crillon stationery would help them.\
Brett did not turn up, so about quarter to six I went down to the bar\
and had a Jack Rose with George the barman. Brett had not been in the\
bar either, and so I looked for her up-stairs on my way out, and took a\
taxi to the Caf\'e9 Select. Crossing the Seine I saw a string of barges\
being towed empty down the current, riding high, the bargemen at the\
sweeps as they came toward the bridge. The river looked nice. It was\
always pleasant crossing bridges in Paris.\
\
The taxi rounded the statue of the inventor of the semaphore engaged in\
doing same, and turned up the Boulevard Raspail, and I sat back to let\
that part of the ride pass. The Boulevard Raspail always made dull\
riding. It was like a certain stretch on the P. L. M. between\
Fontainebleau and Montereau that always made me feel bored and dead and\
dull until it was over. I suppose it is some association of ideas that\
makes those dead places in a journey. There are other streets in Paris\
as ugly as the Boulevard Raspail. It is a street I do not mind walking\
down at all. But I cannot stand to ride along it. Perhaps I had read\
something about it once. That was the way Robert Cohn was about all of\
Paris. I wondered where Cohn got that incapacity to enjoy Paris.\
Possibly from Mencken. Mencken hates Paris, I believe. So many young men\
get their likes and dislikes from Mencken.\
\
The taxi stopped in front of the Rotonde. No matter what caf\'e9 in\
Montparnasse you ask a taxi-driver to bring you to from the right bank\
of the river, they always take you to the Rotonde. Ten years from now it\
will probably be the Dome. It was near enough, anyway. I walked past the\
sad tables of the Rotonde to the Select. There were a few people inside\
at the bar, and outside, alone, sat Harvey Stone. He had a pile of\
saucers in front of him, and he needed a shave.\
\
\'93Sit down,\'94 said Harvey, \'93I\'92ve been looking for you.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing. Just looking for you.\'94\
\
\'93Been out to the races?\'94\
\
\'93No. Not since Sunday.\'94\
\
\'93What do you hear from the States?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing. Absolutely nothing.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I\'92m through with them. I\'92m absolutely through with them.\'94\
\
He leaned forward and looked me in the eye.\
\
\'93Do you want to know something, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93I haven\'92t had anything to eat for five days.\'94\
\
I figured rapidly back in my mind. It was three days ago that Harvey had\
won two hundred francs from me shaking poker dice in the New York Bar.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93No money. Money hasn\'92t come,\'94 he paused. \'93I tell you it\'92s strange,\
Jake. When I\'92m like this I just want to be alone. I want to stay in my\
own room. I\'92m like a cat.\'94\
\
I felt in my pocket.\
\
\'93Would a hundred help you any, Harvey?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Come on. Let\'92s go and eat.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s no hurry. Have a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Better eat.\'94\
\
\'93No. When I get like this I don\'92t care whether I eat or not.\'94\
\
We had a drink. Harvey added my saucer to his own pile.\
\
\'93Do you know Mencken, Harvey?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Why?\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s he like?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s all right. He says some pretty funny things. Last time I had\
dinner with him we talked about Hoffenheimer. \'91The trouble is,\'92 he said,\
\'91he\'92s a garter snapper.\'92 That\'92s not bad.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s not bad.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s through now,\'94 Harvey went on. \'93He\'92s written about all the things\
he knows, and now he\'92s on all the things he doesn\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93I guess he\'92s all right,\'94 I said. \'93I just can\'92t read him.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, nobody reads him now,\'94 Harvey said, \'93except the people that used to\
read the Alexander Hamilton Institute.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said. \'93That was a good thing, too.\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Harvey. So we sat and thought deeply for a while.\
\
\'93Have another port?\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 said Harvey.\
\
\'93There comes Cohn,\'94 I said. Robert Cohn was crossing the street.\
\
\'93That moron,\'94 said Harvey. Cohn came up to our table.\
\
\'93Hello, you bums,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Hello, Robert,\'94 Harvey said. \'93I was just telling Jake here that you\'92re\
a moron.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93Tell us right off. Don\'92t think. What would you rather do if you could\
do anything you wanted?\'94\
\
Cohn started to consider.\
\
\'93Don\'92t think. Bring it right out.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Cohn said. \'93What\'92s it all about, anyway?\'94\
\
\'93I mean what would you rather do. What comes into your head first. No\
matter how silly it is.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Cohn said. \'93I think I\'92d rather play football again with\
what I know about handling myself, now.\'94\
\
\'93I misjudged you,\'94 Harvey said. \'93You\'92re not a moron. You\'92re only a case\
of arrested development.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re awfully funny, Harvey,\'94 Cohn said. \'93Some day somebody will push\
your face in.\'94\
\
Harvey Stone laughed. \'93You think so. They won\'92t, though. Because it\
wouldn\'92t make any difference to me. I\'92m not a fighter.\'94\
\
\'93It would make a difference to you if anybody did it.\'94\
\
\'93No, it wouldn\'92t. That\'92s where you make your big mistake. Because you\'92re\
not intelligent.\'94\
\
\'93Cut it out about me.\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Harvey. \'93It doesn\'92t make any difference to me. You don\'92t\
mean anything to me.\'94\
\
\'93Come on, Harvey,\'94 I said. \'93Have another porto.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92m going up the street and eat. See you later, Jake.\'94\
\
He walked out and up the street. I watched him crossing the street\
through the taxis, small, heavy, slowly sure of himself in the traffic.\
\
\'93He always gets me sore,\'94 Cohn said. \'93I can\'92t stand him.\'94\
\
\'93I like him,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m fond of him. You don\'92t want to get sore at\
him.\'94\
\
\'93I know it,\'94 Cohn said. \'93He just gets on my nerves.\'94\
\
\'93Write this afternoon?\'94\
\
\'93No. I couldn\'92t get it going. It\'92s harder to do than my first book. I\'92m\
having a hard time handling it.\'94\
\
The sort of healthy conceit that he had when he returned from America\
early in the spring was gone. Then he had been sure of his work, only\
with these personal longings for adventure. Now the sureness was gone.\
Somehow I feel I have not shown Robert Cohn clearly. The reason is that\
until he fell in love with Brett, I never heard him make one remark that\
would, in any way, detach him from other people. He was nice to watch on\
the tennis-court, he had a good body, and he kept it in shape; he\
handled his cards well at bridge, and he had a funny sort of\
undergraduate quality about him. If he were in a crowd nothing he said\
stood out. He wore what used to be called polo shirts at school, and may\
be called that still, but he was not professionally youthful. I do not\
believe he thought about his clothes much. Externally he had been formed\
at Princeton. Internally he had been moulded by the two women who had\
trained him. He had a nice, boyish sort of cheerfulness that had never\
been trained out of him, and I probably have not brought it out. He\
loved to win at tennis. He probably loved to win as much as Lenglen, for\
instance. On the other hand, he was not angry at being beaten. When he\
fell in love with Brett his tennis game went all to pieces. People beat\
him who had never had a chance with him. He was very nice about it.\
\
Anyhow, we were sitting on the terrace of the Caf\'e9 Select, and Harvey\
Stone had just crossed the street.\
\
\'93Come on up to the Lilas,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I have a date.\'94\
\
\'93What time?\'94\
\
\'93Frances is coming here at seven-fifteen.\'94\
\
\'93There she is.\'94\
\
Frances Clyne was coming toward us from across the street. She was a\
very tall girl who walked with a great deal of movement. She waved and\
smiled. We watched her cross the street.\
\
\'93Hello,\'94 she said, \'93I\'92m so glad you\'92re here, Jake. I\'92ve been wanting to\
talk to you.\'94\
\
\'93Hello, Frances,\'94 said Cohn. He smiled.\
\
\'93Why, hello, Robert. Are you here?\'94 She went on, talking rapidly. \'93I\'92ve\
had the darndest time. This one\'94\'97shaking her head at Cohn\'97\'93didn\'92t come\
home for lunch.\'94\
\
\'93I wasn\'92t supposed to.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I know. But you didn\'92t say anything about it to the cook. Then I\
had a date myself, and Paula wasn\'92t at her office. I went to the Ritz\
and waited for her, and she never came, and of course I didn\'92t have\
enough money to lunch at the Ritz\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93What did you do?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, went out, of course.\'94 She spoke in a sort of imitation joyful\
manner. \'93I always keep my appointments. No one keeps theirs, nowadays. I\
ought to know better. How are you, Jake, anyway?\'94\
\
\'93Fine.\'94\
\
\'93That was a fine girl you had at the dance, and then went off with that\
Brett one.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you like her?\'94 Cohn asked.\
\
\'93I think she\'92s perfectly charming. Don\'92t you?\'94\
\
Cohn said nothing.\
\
\'93Look, Jake. I want to talk with you. Would you come over with me to the\
Dome? You\'92ll stay here, won\'92t you, Robert? Come on, Jake.\'94\
\
We crossed the Boulevard Montparnasse and sat down at a table. A boy\
came up with the _Paris Times_, and I bought one and opened it.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, Frances?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, nothing,\'94 she said, \'93except that he wants to leave me.\'94\
\
\'93How do you mean?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, he told every one that we were going to be married, and I told my\
mother and every one, and now he doesn\'92t want to do it.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s decided he hasn\'92t lived enough. I knew it would happen when he\
went to New York.\'94\
\
She looked up, very bright-eyed and trying to talk inconsequentially.\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t marry him if he doesn\'92t want to. Of course I wouldn\'92t. I\
wouldn\'92t marry him now for anything. But it does seem to me to be a\
little late now, after we\'92ve waited three years, and I\'92ve just gotten my\
divorce.\'94\
\
I said nothing.\
\
\'93We were going to celebrate so, and instead we\'92ve just had scenes. It\'92s\
so childish. We have dreadful scenes, and he cries and begs me to be\
reasonable, but he says he just can\'92t do it.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s rotten luck.\'94\
\
\'93I should say it is rotten luck. I\'92ve wasted two years and a half on him\
now. And I don\'92t know now if any man will ever want to marry me. Two\
years ago I could have married anybody I wanted, down at Cannes. All the\
old ones that wanted to marry somebody chic and settle down were crazy\
about me. Now I don\'92t think I could get anybody.\'94\
\
\'93Sure, you could marry anybody.\'94\
\
\'93No, I don\'92t believe it. And I\'92m fond of him, too. And I\'92d like to have\
children. I always thought we\'92d have children.\'94\
\
She looked at me very brightly. \'93I never liked children much, but I\
don\'92t want to think I\'92ll never have them. I always thought I\'92d have them\
and then like them.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s got children.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. He\'92s got children, and he\'92s got money, and he\'92s got a rich\
mother, and he\'92s written a book, and nobody will publish my stuff;\
nobody at all. It isn\'92t bad, either. And I haven\'92t got any money at all.\
I could have had alimony, but I got the divorce the quickest way.\'94\
\
She looked at me again very brightly.\
\
\'93It isn\'92t right. It\'92s my own fault and it\'92s not, too. I ought to have\
known better. And when I tell him he just cries and says he can\'92t marry.\
Why can\'92t he marry? I\'92d be a good wife. I\'92m easy to get along with. I\
leave him alone. It doesn\'92t do any good.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a rotten shame.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, it is a rotten shame. But there\'92s no use talking about it, is\
there? Come on, let\'92s go back to the caf\'e9.\'94\
\
\'93And of course there isn\'92t anything I can do.\'94\
\
\'93No. Just don\'92t let him know I talked to you. I know what he wants.\'94 Now\
for the first time she dropped her bright, terribly cheerful manner. \'93He\
wants to go back to New York alone, and be there when his book comes out\
so when a lot of little chickens like it. That\'92s what he wants.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe they won\'92t like it. I don\'92t think he\'92s that way. Really.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t know him like I do, Jake. That\'92s what he wants to do. I know\
it. I know it. That\'92s why he doesn\'92t want to marry. He wants to have a\
big triumph this fall all by himself.\'94\
\
\'93Want to go back to the caf\'e9?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Come on.\'94\
\
We got up from the table\'97they had never brought us a drink\'97and started\
across the street toward the Select, where Cohn sat smiling at us from\
behind the marble-topped table.\
\
\'93Well, what are you smiling at?\'94 Frances asked him. \'93Feel pretty happy?\'94\
\
\'93I was smiling at you and Jake with your secrets.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, what I\'92ve told Jake isn\'92t any secret. Everybody will know it soon\
enough. I only wanted to give Jake a decent version.\'94\
\
\'93What was it? About your going to England?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, about my going to England. Oh, Jake! I forgot to tell you. I\'92m\
going to England.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t that fine!\'94\
\
\'93Yes, that\'92s the way it\'92s done in the very best families. Robert\'92s\
sending me. He\'92s going to give me two hundred pounds and then I\'92m going\
to visit friends. Won\'92t it be lovely? The friends don\'92t know about it,\
yet.\'94\
\
She turned to Cohn and smiled at him. He was not smiling now.\
\
\'93You were only going to give me a hundred pounds, weren\'92t you, Robert?\
But I made him give me two hundred. He\'92s really very generous. Aren\'92t\
you, Robert?\'94\
\
I do not know how people could say such terrible things to Robert Cohn.\
There are people to whom you could not say insulting things. They give\
you a feeling that the world would be destroyed, would actually be\
destroyed before your eyes, if you said certain things. But here was\
Cohn taking it all. Here it was, all going on right before me, and I did\
not even feel an impulse to try and stop it. And this was friendly\
joking to what went on later.\
\
\'93How can you say such things, Frances?\'94 Cohn interrupted.\
\
\'93Listen to him. I\'92m going to England. I\'92m going to visit friends. Ever\
visit friends that didn\'92t want you? Oh, they\'92ll have to take me, all\
right. \'91How do you do, my dear? Such a long time since we\'92ve seen you.\
And how is your dear mother?\'92 Yes, how is my dear mother? She put all\
her money into French war bonds. Yes, she did. Probably the only person\
in the world that did. \'91And what about Robert?\'92 or else very careful\
talking around Robert. \'91You must be most careful not to mention him, my\
dear. Poor Frances has had a most unfortunate experience.\'92 Won\'92t it be\
fun, Robert? Don\'92t you think it will be fun, Jake?\'94\
\
She turned to me with that terribly bright smile. It was very\
satisfactory to her to have an audience for this.\
\
\'93And where are you going to be, Robert? It\'92s my own fault, all right.\
Perfectly my own fault. When I made you get rid of your little secretary\
on the magazine I ought to have known you\'92d get rid of me the same way.\
Jake doesn\'92t know about that. Should I tell him?\'94\
\
\'93Shut up, Frances, for God\'92s sake.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I\'92ll tell him. Robert had a little secretary on the magazine. Just\
the sweetest little thing in the world, and he thought she was\
wonderful, and then I came along and he thought I was pretty wonderful,\
too. So I made him get rid of her, and he had brought her to\
Provincetown from Carmel when he moved the magazine, and he didn\'92t even\
pay her fare back to the coast. All to please me. He thought I was\
pretty fine, then. Didn\'92t you, Robert?\
\
\'93You mustn\'92t misunderstand, Jake, it was absolutely platonic with the\
secretary. Not even platonic. Nothing at all, really. It was just that\
she was so nice. And he did that just to please me. Well, I suppose that\
we that live by the sword shall perish by the sword. Isn\'92t that\
literary, though? You want to remember that for your next book, Robert.\
\
\'93You know Robert is going to get material for a new book. Aren\'92t you,\
Robert? That\'92s why he\'92s leaving me. He\'92s decided I don\'92t film well. You\
see, he was so busy all the time that we were living together, writing\
on this book, that he doesn\'92t remember anything about us. So now he\'92s\
going out and get some new material. Well, I hope he gets something\
frightfully interesting.\
\
\'93Listen, Robert, dear. Let me tell you something. You won\'92t mind, will\
you? Don\'92t have scenes with your young ladies. Try not to. Because you\
can\'92t have scenes without crying, and then you pity yourself so much you\
can\'92t remember what the other person\'92s said. You\'92ll never be able to\
remember any conversations that way. Just try and be calm. I know it\'92s\
awfully hard. But remember, it\'92s for literature. We all ought to make\
sacrifices for literature. Look at me. I\'92m going to England without a\
protest. All for literature. We must all help young writers. Don\'92t you\
think so, Jake? But you\'92re not a young writer. Are you, Robert? You\'92re\
thirty-four. Still, I suppose that is young for a great writer. Look at\
Hardy. Look at Anatole France. He just died a little while ago. Robert\
doesn\'92t think he\'92s any good, though. Some of his French friends told\
him. He doesn\'92t read French very well himself. He wasn\'92t a good writer\
like you are, was he, Robert? Do you think he ever had to go and look\
for material? What do you suppose he said to his mistresses when he\
wouldn\'92t marry them? I wonder if he cried, too? Oh, I\'92ve just thought of\
something.\'94 She put her gloved hand up to her lips. \'93I know the real\
reason why Robert won\'92t marry me, Jake. It\'92s just come to me. They\'92ve\
sent it to me in a vision in the Caf\'e9 Select. Isn\'92t it mystic? Some day\
they\'92ll put a tablet up. Like at Lourdes. Do you want to hear, Robert?\
I\'92ll tell you. It\'92s so simple. I wonder why I never thought about it.\
Why, you see, Robert\'92s always wanted to have a mistress, and if he\
doesn\'92t marry me, why, then he\'92s had one. She was his mistress for over\
two years. See how it is? And if he marries me, like he\'92s always\
promised he would, that would be the end of all the romance. Don\'92t you\
think that\'92s bright of me to figure that out? It\'92s true, too. Look at\
him and see if it\'92s not. Where are you going, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got to go in and see Harvey Stone a minute.\'94\
\
Cohn looked up as I went in. His face was white. Why did he sit there?\
Why did he keep on taking it like that?\
\
As I stood against the bar looking out I could see them through the\
window. Frances was talking on to him, smiling brightly, looking into\
his face each time she asked: \'93Isn\'92t it so, Robert?\'94 Or maybe she did\
not ask that now. Perhaps she said something else. I told the barman I\
did not want anything to drink and went out through the side door. As I\
went out the door I looked back through the two thicknesses of glass and\
saw them sitting there. She was still talking to him. I went down a side\
street to the Boulevard Raspail. A taxi came along and I got in and gave\
the driver the address of my flat.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   7\
\
\
As I started up the stairs the concierge knocked on the glass of the\
door of her lodge, and as I stopped she came out. She had some letters\
and a telegram.\
\
\'93Here is the post. And there was a lady here to see you.\'94\
\
\'93Did she leave a card?\'94\
\
\'93No. She was with a gentleman. It was the one who was here last night.\
In the end I find she is very nice.\'94\
\
\'93Was she with a friend of mine?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. He was never here before. He was very large. Very, very\
large. She was very nice. Very, very nice. Last night she was, perhaps,\
a little\'97\'94 She put her head on one hand and rocked it up and down.\
\'93I\'92ll speak perfectly frankly, Monsieur Barnes. Last night I found her\
not so gentille. Last night I formed another idea of her. But listen to\
what I tell you. She is tr\'e8s, tr\'e8s gentille. She is of very good family.\
It is a thing you can see.\'94\
\
\'93They did not leave any word?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. They said they would be back in an hour.\'94\
\
\'93Send them up when they come.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, Monsieur Barnes. And that lady, that lady there is some one. An\
eccentric, perhaps, but quelqu\'92une, quelqu\'92une!\'94\
\
The concierge, before she became a concierge, had owned a drink-selling\
concession at the Paris race-courses. Her life-work lay in the pelouse,\
but she kept an eye on the people of the pesage, and she took great\
pride in telling me which of my guests were well brought up, which were\
of good family, who were sportsmen, a French word pronounced with the\
accent on the men. The only trouble was that people who did not fall\
into any of those three categories were very liable to be told there was\
no one home, chez Barnes. One of my friends, an extremely\
underfed-looking painter, who was obviously to Madame Duzinell neither\
well brought up, of good family, nor a sportsman, wrote me a letter\
asking if I could get him a pass to get by the concierge so he could\
come up and see me occasionally in the evenings.\
\
I went up to the flat wondering what Brett had done to the concierge.\
The wire was a cable from Bill Gorton, saying he was arriving on the\
_France_. I put the mail on the table, went back to the bedroom,\
undressed and had a shower. I was rubbing down when I heard the\
door-bell pull. I put on a bathrobe and slippers and went to the door.\
It was Brett. Back of her was the count. He was holding a great bunch of\
roses.\
\
\'93Hello, darling,\'94 said Brett. \'93Aren\'92t you going to let us in?\'94\
\
\'93Come on. I was just bathing.\'94\
\
\'93Aren\'92t you the fortunate man. Bathing.\'94\
\
\'93Only a shower. Sit down, Count Mippipopolous. What will you drink?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know whether you like flowers, sir,\'94 the count said, \'93but I\
took the liberty of just bringing these roses.\'94\
\
\'93Here, give them to me.\'94 Brett took them. \'93Get me some water in this,\
Jake.\'94 I filled the big earthenware jug with water in the kitchen, and\
Brett put the roses in it, and placed them in the centre of the\
dining-room table.\
\
\'93I say. We have had a day.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t remember anything about a date with me at the Crillon?\'94\
\
\'93No. Did we have one? I must have been blind.\'94\
\
\'93You were quite drunk, my dear,\'94 said the count.\
\
\'93Wasn\'92t I, though? And the count\'92s been a brick, absolutely.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve got hell\'92s own drag with the concierge now.\'94\
\
\'93I ought to have. Gave her two hundred francs.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be a damned fool.\'94\
\
\'93His,\'94 she said, and nodded at the count.\
\
\'93I thought we ought to give her a little something for last night. It\
was very late.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s wonderful,\'94 Brett said. \'93He remembers everything that\'92s happened.\'94\
\
\'93So do you, my dear.\'94\
\
\'93Fancy,\'94 said Brett. \'93Who\'92d want to? I say, Jake, _do_ we get a drink?\'94\
\
\'93You get it while I go in and dress. You know where it is.\'94\
\
\'93Rather.\'94\
\
While I dressed I heard Brett put down glasses and then a siphon, and\
then heard them talking. I dressed slowly, sitting on the bed. I felt\
tired and pretty rotten. Brett came in the room, a glass in her hand,\
and sat on the bed.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter, darling? Do you feel rocky?\'94\
\
She kissed me coolly on the forehead.\
\
\'93Oh, Brett, I love you so much.\'94\
\
\'93Darling,\'94 she said. Then: \'93Do you want me to send him away?\'94\
\
\'93No. He\'92s nice.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll send him away.\'94\
\
\'93No, don\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, I\'92ll send him away.\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t just like that.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t I, though? You stay here. He\'92s mad about me, I tell you.\'94\
\
She was gone out of the room. I lay face down on the bed. I was having a\
bad time. I heard them talking but I did not listen. Brett came in and\
sat on the bed.\
\
\'93Poor old darling.\'94 She stroked my head.\
\
\'93What did you say to him?\'94 I was lying with my face away from her. I did\
not want to see her.\
\
\'93Sent him for champagne. He loves to go for champagne.\'94\
\
Then later: \'93Do you feel better, darling? Is the head any better?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s better.\'94\
\
\'93Lie quiet. He\'92s gone to the other side of town.\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t we live together, Brett? Couldn\'92t we just live together?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so. I\'92d just _tromper_ you with everybody. You couldn\'92t\
stand it.\'94\
\
\'93I stand it now.\'94\
\
\'93That would be different. It\'92s my fault, Jake. It\'92s the way I\'92m made.\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t we go off in the country for a while?\'94\
\
\'93It wouldn\'92t be any good. I\'92ll go if you like. But I couldn\'92t live\
quietly in the country. Not with my own true love.\'94\
\
\'93I know.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t it rotten? There isn\'92t any use my telling you I love you.\'94\
\
\'93You know I love you.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s not talk. Talking\'92s all bilge. I\'92m going away from you, and then\
Michael\'92s coming back.\'94\
\
\'93Why are you going away?\'94\
\
\'93Better for you. Better for me.\'94\
\
\'93When are you going?\'94\
\
\'93Soon as I can.\'94\
\
\'93Where?\'94\
\
\'93San Sebastian.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t we go together?\'94\
\
\'93No. That would be a hell of an idea after we\'92d just talked it out.\'94\
\
\'93We never agreed.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, you know as well as I do. Don\'92t be obstinate, darling.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, sure,\'94 I said. \'93I know you\'92re right. I\'92m just low, and when I\'92m low\
I talk like a fool.\'94\
\
I sat up, leaned over, found my shoes beside the bed and put them on. I\
stood up.\
\
\'93Don\'92t look like that, darling.\'94\
\
\'93How do you want me to look?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, don\'92t be a fool. I\'92m going away to-morrow.\'94\
\
\'93To-morrow?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Didn\'92t I say so? I am.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s have a drink, then. The count will be back.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. He should be back. You know he\'92s extraordinary about buying\
champagne. It means any amount to him.\'94\
\
We went into the dining-room. I took up the brandy bottle and poured\
Brett a drink and one for myself. There was a ring at the bell-pull. I\
went to the door and there was the count. Behind him was the chauffeur\
carrying a basket of champagne.\
\
\'93Where should I have him put it, sir?\'94 asked the count.\
\
\'93In the kitchen,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Put it in there, Henry,\'94 the count motioned. \'93Now go down and get the\
ice.\'94 He stood looking after the basket inside the kitchen door. \'93I\
think you\'92ll find that\'92s very good wine,\'94 he said. \'93I know we don\'92t get\
much of a chance to judge good wine in the States now, but I got this\
from a friend of mine that\'92s in the business.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, you always have some one in the trade,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93This fellow raises the grapes. He\'92s got thousands of acres of them.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s his name?\'94 asked Brett. \'93Veuve Cliquot?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said the count. \'93Mumms. He\'92s a baron.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t it wonderful,\'94 said Brett. \'93We all have titles. Why haven\'92t you a\
title, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93I assure you, sir,\'94 the count put his hand on my arm. \'93It never does a\
man any good. Most of the time it costs you money.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I don\'92t know. It\'92s damned useful sometimes,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93I\'92ve never known it to do me any good.\'94\
\
\'93You haven\'92t used it properly. I\'92ve had hell\'92s own amount of credit on\
mine.\'94\
\
\'93Do sit down, count,\'94 I said. \'93Let me take that stick.\'94\
\
The count was looking at Brett across the table under the gas-light. She\
was smoking a cigarette and flicking the ashes on the rug. She saw me\
notice it. \'93I say, Jake, I don\'92t want to ruin your rugs. Can\'92t you give\
a chap an ash-tray?\'94\
\
I found some ash-trays and spread them around. The chauffeur came up\
with a bucket full of salted ice. \'93Put two bottles in it, Henry,\'94 the\
count called.\
\
\'93Anything else, sir?\'94\
\
\'93No. Wait down in the car.\'94 He turned to Brett and to me. \'93We\'92ll want to\
ride out to the Bois for dinner?\'94\
\
\'93If you like,\'94 Brett said. \'93I couldn\'92t eat a thing.\'94\
\
\'93I always like a good meal,\'94 said the count.\
\
\'93Should I bring the wine in, sir?\'94 asked the chauffeur.\
\
\'93Yes. Bring it in, Henry,\'94 said the count. He took out a heavy pigskin\
cigar-case and offered it to me. \'93Like to try a real American cigar?\'94\
\
\'93Thanks,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll finish the cigarette.\'94\
\
He cut off the end of his cigar with a gold cutter he wore on one end of\
his watch-chain.\
\
\'93I like a cigar to really draw,\'94 said the count \'93Half the cigars you\
smoke don\'92t draw.\'94\
\
He lit the cigar, puffed at it, looking across the table at Brett. \'93And\
when you\'92re divorced, Lady Ashley, then you won\'92t have a title.\'94\
\
\'93No. What a pity.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said the count. \'93You don\'92t need a title. You got class all over\
you.\'94\
\
\'93Thanks. Awfully decent of you.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not joking you,\'94 the count blew a cloud of smoke. \'93You got the most\
class of anybody I ever seen. You got it. That\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93Nice of you,\'94 said Brett. \'93Mummy would be pleased. Couldn\'92t you write\
it out, and I\'92ll send it in a letter to her.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d tell her, too,\'94 said the count. \'93I\'92m not joking you. I never joke\
people. Joke people and you make enemies. That\'92s what I always say.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re right,\'94 Brett said. \'93You\'92re terribly right. I always joke people\
and I haven\'92t a friend in the world. Except Jake here.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t joke him.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it.\'94\
\
\'93Do you, now?\'94 asked the count. \'93Do you joke him?\'94\
\
Brett looked at me and wrinkled up the corners of her eyes.\
\
\'93No,\'94 she said. \'93I wouldn\'92t joke him.\'94\
\
\'93See,\'94 said the count. \'93You don\'92t joke him.\'94\
\
\'93This is a hell of a dull talk,\'94 Brett said. \'93How about some of that\
champagne?\'94\
\
The count reached down and twirled the bottles in the shiny bucket. \'93It\
isn\'92t cold, yet. You\'92re always drinking, my dear. Why don\'92t you just\
talk?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve talked too ruddy much. I\'92ve talked myself all out to Jake.\'94\
\
\'93I should like to hear you really talk, my dear. When you talk to me you\
never finish your sentences at all.\'94\
\
\'93Leave \'92em for you to finish. Let any one finish them as they like.\'94\
\
\'93It is a very interesting system,\'94 the count reached down and gave the\
bottles a twirl. \'93Still I would like to hear you talk some time.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t he a fool?\'94 Brett asked.\
\
\'93Now,\'94 the count brought up a bottle. \'93I think this is cool.\'94\
\
I brought a towel and he wiped the bottle dry and held it up. \'93I like to\
drink champagne from magnums. The wine is better but it would have been\
too hard to cool.\'94 He held the bottle, looking at it. I put out the\
glasses.\
\
\'93I say. You might open it,\'94 Brett suggested.\
\
\'93Yes, my dear. Now I\'92ll open it.\'94\
\
It was amazing champagne.\
\
\'93I say that is wine,\'94 Brett held up her glass. \'93We ought to toast\
something. \'91Here\'92s to royalty.\'92\'94\
\
\'93This wine is too good for toast-drinking, my dear. You don\'92t want to\
mix emotions up with a wine like that. You lose the taste.\'94\
\
Brett\'92s glass was empty.\
\
\'93You ought to write a book on wines, count,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Mr. Barnes,\'94 answered the count, \'93all I want out of wines is to enjoy\
them.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s enjoy a little more of this,\'94 Brett pushed her glass forward. The\
count poured very carefully. \'93There, my dear. Now you enjoy that slowly,\
and then you can get drunk.\'94\
\
\'93Drunk? Drunk?\'94\
\
\'93My dear, you are charming when you are drunk.\'94\
\
\'93Listen to the man.\'94\
\
\'93Mr. Barnes,\'94 the count poured my glass full. \'93She is the only lady I\
have ever known who was as charming when she was drunk as when she was\
sober.\'94\
\
\'93You haven\'92t been around much, have you?\'94\
\
\'93Yes, my dear. I have been around very much. I have been around a very\
great deal.\'94\
\
\'93Drink your wine,\'94 said Brett. \'93We\'92ve all been around. I dare say Jake\
here has seen as much as you have.\'94\
\
\'93My dear, I am sure Mr. Barnes has seen a lot. Don\'92t think I don\'92t think\
so, sir. I have seen a lot, too.\'94\
\
\'93Of course you have, my dear,\'94 Brett said. \'93I was only ragging.\'94\
\
\'93I have been in seven wars and four revolutions,\'94 the count said.\
\
\'93Soldiering?\'94 Brett asked.\
\
\'93Sometimes, my dear. And I have got arrow wounds. Have you ever seen\
arrow wounds?\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s have a look at them.\'94\
\
The count stood up, unbuttoned his vest, and opened his shirt. He pulled\
up the undershirt onto his chest and stood, his chest black, and big\
stomach muscles bulging under the light.\
\
\'93You see them?\'94\
\
Below the line where his ribs stopped were two raised white welts. \'93See\
on the back where they come out.\'94 Above the small of the back were the\
same two scars, raised as thick as a finger.\
\
\'93I say. Those are something.\'94\
\
\'93Clean through.\'94\
\
The count was tucking in his shirt.\
\
\'93Where did you get those?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93In Abyssinia. When I was twenty-one years old.\'94\
\
\'93What were you doing?\'94 asked Brett. \'93Were you in the army?\'94\
\
\'93I was on a business trip, my dear.\'94\
\
\'93I told you he was one of us. Didn\'92t I?\'94 Brett turned to me. \'93I love\
you, count. You\'92re a darling.\'94\
\
\'93You make me very happy, my dear. But it isn\'92t true.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be an ass.\'94\
\
\'93You see, Mr. Barnes, it is because I have lived very much that now I\
can enjoy everything so well. Don\'92t you find it like that?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Absolutely.\'94\
\
\'93I know,\'94 said the count. \'93That is the secret. You must get to know the\
values.\'94\
\
\'93Doesn\'92t anything ever happen to your values?\'94 Brett asked.\
\
\'93No. Not any more.\'94\
\
\'93Never fall in love?\'94\
\
\'93Always,\'94 said the count. \'93I am always in love.\'94\
\
\'93What does that do to your values?\'94\
\
\'93That, too, has got a place in my values.\'94\
\
\'93You haven\'92t any values. You\'92re dead, that\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93No, my dear. You\'92re not right. I\'92m not dead at all.\'94\
\
We drank three bottles of the champagne and the count left the basket in\
my kitchen. We dined at a restaurant in the Bois. It was a good dinner.\
Food had an excellent place in the count\'92s values. So did wine. The\
count was in fine form during the meal. So was Brett. It was a good\
party.\
\
\'93Where would you like to go?\'94 asked the count after dinner. We were the\
only people left in the restaurant. The two waiters were standing over\
against the door. They wanted to go home.\
\
\'93We might go up on the hill,\'94 Brett said. \'93Haven\'92t we had a splendid\
party?\'94\
\
The count was beaming. He was very happy.\
\
\'93You are very nice people,\'94 he said. He was smoking a cigar again. \'93Why\
don\'92t you get married, you two?\'94\
\
\'93We want to lead our own lives,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93We have our careers,\'94 Brett said. \'93Come on. Let\'92s get out of this.\'94\
\
\'93Have another brandy,\'94 the count said.\
\
\'93Get it on the hill.\'94\
\
\'93No. Have it here where it is quiet.\'94\
\
\'93You and your quiet,\'94 said Brett. \'93What is it men feel about quiet?\'94\
\
\'93We like it,\'94 said the count. \'93Like you like noise, my dear.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 said Brett. \'93Let\'92s have one.\'94\
\
\'93Sommelier!\'94 the count called.\
\
\'93Yes, sir.\'94\
\
\'93What is the oldest brandy you have?\'94\
\
\'93Eighteen eleven, sir.\'94\
\
\'93Bring us a bottle.\'94\
\
\'93I say. Don\'92t be ostentatious. Call him off, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93Listen, my dear. I get more value for my money in old brandy than in\
any other antiquities.\'94\
\
\'93Got many antiquities?\'94\
\
\'93I got a houseful.\'94\
\
Finally we went up to Montmartre. Inside Zelli\'92s it was crowded, smoky,\
and noisy. The music hit you as you went in. Brett and I danced. It was\
so crowded we could barely move. The nigger drummer waved at Brett. We\
were caught in the jam, dancing in one place in front of him.\
\
\'93Hahre you?\'94\
\
\'93Great.\'94\
\
\'93Thaats good.\'94\
\
He was all teeth and lips.\
\
\'93He\'92s a great friend of mine,\'94 Brett said. \'93Damn good drummer.\'94\
\
The music stopped and we started toward the table where the count sat.\
Then the music started again and we danced. I looked at the count. He\
was sitting at the table smoking a cigar. The music stopped again.\
\
\'93Let\'92s go over.\'94\
\
Brett started toward the table. The music started and again we danced,\
tight in the crowd.\
\
\'93You are a rotten dancer, Jake. Michael\'92s the best dancer I know.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s splendid.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s got his points.\'94\
\
\'93I like him,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m damned fond of him.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to marry him,\'94 Brett said. \'93Funny. I haven\'92t thought about\
him for a week.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you write him?\'94\
\
\'93Not I. Never write letters.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll bet he writes to you.\'94\
\
\'93Rather. Damned good letters, too.\'94\
\
\'93When are you going to get married?\'94\
\
\'93How do I know? As soon as we can get the divorce. Michael\'92s trying to\
get his mother to put up for it.\'94\
\
\'93Could I help you?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be an ass. Michael\'92s people have loads of money.\'94\
\
The music stopped. We walked over to the table. The count stood up.\
\
\'93Very nice,\'94 he said. \'93You looked very, very nice.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you dance, count?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No. I\'92m too old.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, come off it,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93My dear, I would do it if I would enjoy it. I enjoy to watch you\
dance.\'94\
\
\'93Splendid,\'94 Brett said. \'93I\'92ll dance again for you some time. I say. What\
about your little friend, Zizi?\'94\
\
\'93Let me tell you. I support that boy, but I don\'92t want to have him\
around.\'94\
\
\'93He is rather hard.\'94\
\
\'93You know I think that boy\'92s got a future. But personally I don\'92t want\
him around.\'94\
\
\'93Jake\'92s rather the same way.\'94\
\
\'93He gives me the willys.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 the count shrugged his shoulders. \'93About his future you can\'92t\
ever tell. Anyhow, his father was a great friend of my father.\'94\
\
\'93Come on. Let\'92s dance,\'94 Brett said.\
\
We danced. It was crowded and close.\
\
\'93Oh, darling,\'94 Brett said, \'93I\'92m so miserable.\'94\
\
I had that feeling of going through something that has all happened\
before. \'93You were happy a minute ago.\'94\
\
The drummer shouted: \'93You can\'92t two time\'97\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all gone.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. I just feel terribly.\'94\
\
\'93. . . . . .\'94 the drummer chanted. Then turned to his sticks.\
\
\'93Want to go?\'94\
\
I had the feeling as in a nightmare of it all being something repeated,\
something I had been through and that now I must go through again.\
\
\'93. . . . . .\'94 the drummer sang softly.\
\
\'93Let\'92s go,\'94 said Brett. \'93You don\'92t mind.\'94\
\
\'93. . . . . .\'94 the drummer shouted and grinned at Brett.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. We got out from the crowd. Brett went to the\
dressing-room.\
\
\'93Brett wants to go,\'94 I said to the count. He nodded. \'93Does she? That\'92s\
fine. You take the car. I\'92m going to stay here for a while, Mr. Barnes.\'94\
\
We shook hands.\
\
\'93It was a wonderful time,\'94 I said. \'93I wish you would let me get this.\'94 I\
took a note out of my pocket.\
\
\'93Mr. Barnes, don\'92t be ridiculous,\'94 the count said.\
\
Brett came over with her wrap on. She kissed the count and put her hand\
on his shoulder to keep him from standing up. As we went out the door I\
looked back and there were three girls at his table. We got into the big\
car. Brett gave the chauffeur the address of her hotel.\
\
\'93No, don\'92t come up,\'94 she said at the hotel. She had rung and the door\
was unlatched.\
\
\'93Really?\'94\
\
\'93No. Please.\'94\
\
\'93Good night, Brett,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m sorry you feel rotten.\'94\
\
\'93Good night, Jake. Good night, darling. I won\'92t see you again.\'94 We\
kissed standing at the door. She pushed me away. We kissed again. \'93Oh,\
don\'92t!\'94 Brett said.\
\
She turned quickly and went into the hotel. The chauffeur drove me\
around to my flat. I gave him twenty francs and he touched his cap and\
said: \'93Good night, sir,\'94 and drove off. I rang the bell. The door opened\
and I went up-stairs and went to bed.\
\
\
\
\
                                BOOK II\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   8\
\
\
I did not see Brett again until she came back from San Sebastian. One\
card came from her from there. It had a picture of the Concha, and said:\
\'93Darling. Very quiet and healthy. Love to all the chaps. BRETT.\'94\
\
Nor did I see Robert Cohn again. I heard Frances had left for England\
and I had a note from Cohn saying he was going out in the country for a\
couple of weeks, he did not know where, but that he wanted to hold me to\
the fishing-trip in Spain we had talked about last winter. I could reach\
him always, he wrote, through his bankers.\
\
Brett was gone, I was not bothered by Cohn\'92s troubles, I rather enjoyed\
not having to play tennis, there was plenty of work to do, I went often\
to the races, dined with friends, and put in some extra time at the\
office getting things ahead so I could leave it in charge of my\
secretary when Bill Gorton and I should shove off to Spain the end of\
June. Bill Gorton arrived, put up a couple of days at the flat and went\
off to Vienna. He was very cheerful and said the States were wonderful.\
New York was wonderful. There had been a grand theatrical season and a\
whole crop of great young light heavyweights. Any one of them was a good\
prospect to grow up, put on weight and trim Dempsey. Bill was very\
happy. He had made a lot of money on his last book, and was going to\
make a lot more. We had a good time while he was in Paris, and then he\
went off to Vienna. He was coming back in three weeks and we would leave\
for Spain to get in some fishing and go to the fiesta at Pamplona. He\
wrote that Vienna was wonderful. Then a card from Budapest: \'93Jake,\
Budapest is wonderful.\'94 Then I got a wire: \'93Back on Monday.\'94\
\
Monday evening he turned up at the flat. I heard his taxi stop and went\
to the window and called to him; he waved and started up-stairs carrying\
his bags. I met him on the stairs, and took one of the bags.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93I hear you had a wonderful trip.\'94\
\
\'93Wonderful,\'94 he said. \'93Budapest is absolutely wonderful.\'94\
\
\'93How about Vienna?\'94\
\
\'93Not so good, Jake. Not so good. It seemed better than it was.\'94\
\
\'93How do you mean?\'94 I was getting glasses and a siphon.\
\
\'93Tight, Jake. I was tight.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s strange. Better have a drink.\'94\
\
Bill rubbed his forehead. \'93Remarkable thing,\'94 he said. \'93Don\'92t know how\
it happened. Suddenly it happened.\'94\
\
\'93Last long?\'94\
\
\'93Four days, Jake. Lasted just four days.\'94\
\
\'93Where did you go?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t remember. Wrote you a post-card. Remember that perfectly.\'94\
\
\'93Do anything else?\'94\
\
\'93Not so sure. Possible.\'94\
\
\'93Go on. Tell me about it.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t remember. Tell you anything I could remember.\'94\
\
\'93Go on. Take that drink and remember.\'94\
\
\'93Might remember a little,\'94 Bill said. \'93Remember something about a\
prize-fight. Enormous Vienna prize-fight. Had a nigger in it. Remember\
the nigger perfectly.\'94\
\
\'93Go on.\'94\
\
\'93Wonderful nigger. Looked like Tiger Flowers, only four times as big.\
All of a sudden everybody started to throw things. Not me. Nigger\'92d just\
knocked local boy down. Nigger put up his glove. Wanted to make a\
speech. Awful noble-looking nigger. Started to make a speech. Then local\
white boy hit him. Then he knocked white boy cold. Then everybody\
commenced to throw chairs. Nigger went home with us in our car. Couldn\'92t\
get his clothes. Wore my coat. Remember the whole thing now. Big\
sporting evening.\'94\
\
\'93What happened?\'94\
\
\'93Loaned the nigger some clothes and went around with him to try and get\
his money. Claimed nigger owed them money on account of wrecking hall.\
Wonder who translated? Was it me?\'94\
\
\'93Probably it wasn\'92t you.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re right. Wasn\'92t me at all. Was another fellow. Think we called him\
the local Harvard man. Remember him now. Studying music.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92d you come out?\'94\
\
\'93Not so good, Jake. Injustice everywhere. Promoter claimed nigger\
promised let local boy stay. Claimed nigger violated contract. Can\'92t\
knock out Vienna boy in Vienna. \'91My God, Mister Gorton,\'92 said nigger, \'91I\
didn\'92t do nothing in there for forty minutes but try and let him stay.\
That white boy musta ruptured himself swinging at me. I never did hit\
him.\'92\'94\
\
\'93Did you get any money?\'94\
\
\'93No money, Jake. All we could get was nigger\'92s clothes. Somebody took\
his watch, too. Splendid nigger. Big mistake to have come to Vienna. Not\
so good, Jake. Not so good.\'94\
\
\'93What became of the nigger?\'94\
\
\'93Went back to Cologne. Lives there. Married. Got a family. Going to\
write me a letter and send me the money I loaned him. Wonderful nigger.\
Hope I gave him the right address.\'94\
\
\'93You probably did.\'94\
\
\'93Well, anyway, let\'92s eat,\'94 said Bill. \'93Unless you want me to tell you\
some more travel stories.\'94\
\
\'93Go on.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s eat.\'94\
\
We went down-stairs and out onto the Boulevard St. Michel in the warm\
June evening.\
\
\'93Where will we go?\'94\
\
\'93Want to eat on the island?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
We walked down the Boulevard. At the juncture of the Rue\
Denfert-Rochereau with the Boulevard is a statue of two men in flowing\
robes.\
\
\'93I know who they are.\'94 Bill eyed the monument. \'93Gentlemen who invented\
pharmacy. Don\'92t try and fool me on Paris.\'94\
\
We went on.\
\
\'93Here\'92s a taxidermist\'92s,\'94 Bill said. \'93Want to buy anything? Nice stuffed\
dog?\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 I said. \'93You\'92re pie-eyed.\'94\
\
\'93Pretty nice stuffed dogs,\'94 Bill said. \'93Certainly brighten up your\
flat.\'94\
\
\'93Come on.\'94\
\
\'93Just one stuffed dog. I can take \'92em or leave \'92em alone. But listen,\
Jake. Just one stuffed dog.\'94\
\
\'93Come on.\'94\
\
\'93Mean everything in the world to you after you bought it. Simple\
exchange of values. You give them money. They give you a stuffed dog.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll get one on the way back.\'94\
\
\'93All right. Have it your own way. Road to hell paved with unbought\
stuffed dogs. Not my fault.\'94\
\
We went on.\
\
\'93How\'92d you feel that way about dogs so sudden?\'94\
\
\'93Always felt that way about dogs. Always been a great lover of stuffed\
animals.\'94\
\
We stopped and had a drink.\
\
\'93Certainly like to drink,\'94 Bill said. \'93You ought to try it some times,\
Jake.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re about a hundred and forty-four ahead of me.\'94\
\
\'93Ought not to daunt you. Never be daunted. Secret of my success. Never\
been daunted. Never been daunted in public.\'94\
\
\'93Where were you drinking?\'94\
\
\'93Stopped at the Crillon. George made me a couple of Jack Roses. George\'92s\
a great man. Know the secret of his success? Never been daunted.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll be daunted after about three more pernods.\'94\
\
\'93Not in public. If I begin to feel daunted I\'92ll go off by myself. I\'92m\
like a cat that way.\'94\
\
\'93When did you see Harvey Stone?\'94\
\
\'93At the Crillon. Harvey was just a little daunted. Hadn\'92t eaten for\
three days. Doesn\'92t eat any more. Just goes off like a cat. Pretty sad.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s all right.\'94\
\
\'93Splendid. Wish he wouldn\'92t keep going off like a cat, though. Makes me\
nervous.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92ll we do to-night?\'94\
\
\'93Doesn\'92t make any difference. Only let\'92s not get daunted. Suppose they\
got any hard-boiled eggs here? If they had hard-boiled eggs here we\
wouldn\'92t have to go all the way down to the island to eat.\'94\
\
\'93Nix,\'94 I said. \'93We\'92re going to have a regular meal.\'94\
\
\'93Just a suggestion,\'94 said Bill. \'93Want to start now?\'94\
\
\'93Come on.\'94\
\
We started on again down the Boulevard. A horse-cab passed us. Bill\
looked at it.\
\
\'93See that horse-cab? Going to have that horse-cab stuffed for you for\
Christmas. Going to give all my friends stuffed animals. I\'92m a\
nature-writer.\'94\
\
A taxi passed, some one in it waved, then banged for the driver to stop.\
The taxi backed up to the curb. In it was Brett.\
\
\'93Beautiful lady,\'94 said Bill. \'93Going to kidnap us.\'94\
\
\'93Hullo!\'94 Brett said. \'93Hullo!\'94\
\
\'93This is Bill Gorton. Lady Ashley.\'94\
\
Brett smiled at Bill. \'93I say I\'92m just back. Haven\'92t bathed even. Michael\
comes in to-night.\'94\
\
\'93Good. Come on and eat with us, and we\'92ll all go to meet him.\'94\
\
\'93Must clean myself.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, rot! Come on.\'94\
\
\'93Must bathe. He doesn\'92t get in till nine.\'94\
\
\'93Come and have a drink, then, before you bathe.\'94\
\
\'93Might do that. Now you\'92re not talking rot.\'94\
\
We got in the taxi. The driver looked around.\
\
\'93Stop at the nearest bistro,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93We might as well go to the Closerie,\'94 Brett said. \'93I can\'92t drink these\
rotten brandies.\'94\
\
\'93Closerie des Lilas.\'94\
\
Brett turned to Bill.\
\
\'93Have you been in this pestilential city long?\'94\
\
\'93Just got in to-day from Budapest.\'94\
\
\'93How was Budapest?\'94\
\
\'93Wonderful. Budapest was wonderful.\'94\
\
\'93Ask him about Vienna.\'94\
\
\'93Vienna,\'94 said Bill, \'93is a strange city.\'94\
\
\'93Very much like Paris,\'94 Brett smiled at him, wrinkling the corners of\
her eyes.\
\
\'93Exactly,\'94 Bill said. \'93Very much like Paris at this moment.\'94\
\
\'93You _have_ a good start.\'94\
\
Sitting out on the terraces of the Lilas Brett ordered a whiskey and\
soda, I took one, too, and Bill took another pernod.\
\
\'93How are you, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93Great,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ve had a good time.\'94\
\
Brett looked at me. \'93I was a fool to go away,\'94 she said. \'93One\'92s an ass\
to leave Paris.\'94\
\
\'93Did you have a good time?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, all right. Interesting. Not frightfully amusing.\'94\
\
\'93See anybody?\'94\
\
\'93No, hardly anybody. I never went out.\'94\
\
\'93Didn\'92t you swim?\'94\
\
\'93No. Didn\'92t do a thing.\'94\
\
\'93Sounds like Vienna,\'94 Bill said.\
\
Brett wrinkled up the corners of her eyes at him.\
\
\'93So that\'92s the way it was in Vienna.\'94\
\
\'93It was like everything in Vienna.\'94\
\
Brett smiled at him again.\
\
\'93You\'92ve a nice friend, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s all right,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s a taxidermist.\'94\
\
\'93That was in another country,\'94 Bill said. \'93And besides all the animals\
were dead.\'94\
\
\'93One more,\'94 Brett said, \'93and I must run. Do send the waiter for a taxi.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s a line of them. Right out in front.\'94\
\
\'93Good.\'94\
\
We had the drink and put Brett into her taxi.\
\
\'93Mind you\'92re at the Select around ten. Make him come. Michael will be\
there.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll be there,\'94 Bill said. The taxi started and Brett waved.\
\
\'93Quite a girl,\'94 Bill said. \'93She\'92s damned nice. Who\'92s Michael?\'94\
\
\'93The man she\'92s going to marry.\'94\
\
\'93Well, well,\'94 Bill said. \'93That\'92s always just the stage I meet anybody.\
What\'92ll I send them? Think they\'92d like a couple of stuffed race-horses?\'94\
\
\'93We better eat.\'94\
\
\'93Is she really Lady something or other?\'94 Bill asked in the taxi on our\
way down to the Ile Saint Louis.\
\
\'93Oh, yes. In the stud-book and everything.\'94\
\
\'93Well, well.\'94\
\
We ate dinner at Madame Lecomte\'92s restaurant on the far side of the\
island. It was crowded with Americans and we had to stand up and wait\
for a place. Some one had put it in the American Women\'92s Club list as a\
quaint restaurant on the Paris quais as yet untouched by Americans, so\
we had to wait forty-five minutes for a table. Bill had eaten at the\
restaurant in 1918, and right after the armistice, and Madame Lecomte\
made a great fuss over seeing him.\
\
\'93Doesn\'92t get us a table, though,\'94 Bill said. \'93Grand woman, though.\'94\
\
We had a good meal, a roast chicken, new green beans, mashed potatoes, a\
salad, and some apple-pie and cheese.\
\
\'93You\'92ve got the world here all right,\'94 Bill said to Madame Lecomte. She\
raised her hand. \'93Oh, my God!\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll be rich.\'94\
\
\'93I hope so.\'94\
\
After the coffee and a _fine_ we got the bill, chalked up the same as\
ever on a slate, that was doubtless one of the \'93quaint\'94 features, paid\
it, shook hands, and went out.\
\
\'93You never come here any more, Monsieur Barnes,\'94 Madame Lecomte said.\
\
\'93Too many compatriots.\'94\
\
\'93Come at lunch-time. It\'92s not crowded then.\'94\
\
\'93Good. I\'92ll be down soon.\'94\
\
We walked along under the trees that grew out over the river on the Quai\
d\'92Orl\'e9ans side of the island. Across the river were the broken walls of\
old houses that were being torn down.\
\
\'93They\'92re going to cut a street through.\'94\
\
\'93They would,\'94 Bill said.\
\
We walked on and circled the island. The river was dark and a bateau\
mouche went by, all bright with lights, going fast and quiet up and out\
of sight under the bridge. Down the river was Notre Dame squatting\
against the night sky. We crossed to the left bank of the Seine by the\
wooden foot-bridge from the Quai de Bethune, and stopped on the bridge\
and looked down the river at Notre Dame. Standing on the bridge the\
island looked dark, the houses were high against the sky, and the trees\
were shadows.\
\
\'93It\'92s pretty grand,\'94 Bill said. \'93God, I love to get back.\'94\
\
We leaned on the wooden rail of the bridge and looked up the river to\
the lights of the big bridges. Below the water was smooth and black. It\
made no sound against the piles of the bridge. A man and a girl passed\
us. They were walking with their arms around each other.\
\
We crossed the bridge and walked up the Rue du Cardinal Lemoine. It was\
steep walking, and we went all the way up to the Place Contrescarpe. The\
arc-light shone through the leaves of the trees in the square, and\
underneath the trees was an S bus ready to start. Music came out of the\
door of the Negre Joyeux. Through the window of the Caf\'e9 Aux Amateurs I\
saw the long zinc bar. Outside on the terrace working people were\
drinking. In the open kitchen of the Amateurs a girl was cooking\
potato-chips in oil. There was an iron pot of stew. The girl ladled some\
onto a plate for an old man who stood holding a bottle of red wine in\
one hand.\
\
\'93Want to have a drink?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Bill. \'93I don\'92t need it.\'94\
\
We turned to the right off the Place Contrescarpe, walking along smooth\
narrow streets with high old houses on both sides. Some of the houses\
jutted out toward the street. Others were cut back. We came onto the Rue\
du Pot de Fer and followed it along until it brought us to the rigid\
north and south of the Rue Saint Jacques and then walked south, past Val\
de Gr\'e2ce, set back behind the courtyard and the iron fence, to the\
Boulevard du Port Royal.\
\
\'93What do you want to do?\'94 I asked. \'93Go up to the caf\'e9 and see Brett and\
Mike?\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
We walked along Port Royal until it became Montparnasse, and then on\
past the Lilas, Lavigne\'92s, and all the little caf\'e9s, Damoy\'92s, crossed\
the street to the Rotonde, past its lights and tables to the Select.\
\
Michael came toward us from the tables. He was tanned and\
healthy-looking.\
\
\'93Hel-lo, Jake,\'94 he said. \'93Hel-lo! Hel-lo! How are you, old lad?\'94\
\
\'93You look very fit, Mike.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I am. I\'92m frightfully fit. I\'92ve done nothing but walk. Walk all day\
long. One drink a day with my mother at tea.\'94\
\
Bill had gone into the bar. He was standing talking with Brett, who was\
sitting on a high stool, her legs crossed. She had no stockings on.\
\
\'93It\'92s good to see you, Jake,\'94 Michael said. \'93I\'92m a little tight you\
know. Amazing, isn\'92t it? Did you see my nose?\'94\
\
There was a patch of dried blood on the bridge of his nose.\
\
\'93An old lady\'92s bags did that,\'94 Mike said. \'93I reached up to help her with\
them and they fell on me.\'94\
\
Brett gestured at him from the bar with her cigarette-holder and\
wrinkled the corners of her eyes.\
\
\'93An old lady,\'94 said Mike. \'93Her bags _fell_ on me. Let\'92s go in and see\
Brett. I say, she is a piece. You _are_ a lovely lady, Brett. Where did\
you get that hat?\'94\
\
\'93Chap bought it for me. Don\'92t you like it?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a dreadful hat. Do get a good hat.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, we\'92ve so much money now,\'94 Brett said. \'93I say, haven\'92t you met Bill\
yet? You _are_ a lovely host, Jake.\'94\
\
She turned to Mike. \'93This is Bill Gorton. This drunkard is Mike\
Campbell. Mr. Campbell is an undischarged bankrupt.\'94\
\
\'93Aren\'92t I, though? You know I met my ex-partner yesterday in London.\
Chap who did me in.\'94\
\
\'93What did he say?\'94\
\
\'93Bought me a drink. I thought I might as well take it. I say, Brett, you\
_are_ a lovely piece. Don\'92t you think she\'92s beautiful?\'94\
\
\'93Beautiful. With this nose?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lovely nose. Go on, point it at me. Isn\'92t she a lovely piece?\'94\
\
\'93Couldn\'92t we have kept the man in Scotland?\'94\
\
\'93I say, Brett, let\'92s turn in early.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be indecent, Michael. Remember there are ladies at this bar.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t she a lovely piece? Don\'92t you think so, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s a fight to-night,\'94 Bill said. \'93Like to go?\'94\
\
\'93Fight,\'94 said Mike. \'93Who\'92s fighting?\'94\
\
\'93Ledoux and somebody.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s very good, Ledoux,\'94 Mike said. \'93I\'92d like to see it, rather\'94\'97he\
was making an effort to pull himself together\'97\'93but I can\'92t go. I had a\
date with this thing here. I say, Brett, do get a new hat.\'94\
\
Brett pulled the felt hat down far over one eye and smiled out from\
under it. \'93You two run along to the fight. I\'92ll have to be taking Mr.\
Campbell home directly.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not tight,\'94 Mike said. \'93Perhaps just a little. I say, Brett, you\
are a lovely piece.\'94\
\
\'93Go on to the fight,\'94 Brett said. \'93Mr. Campbell\'92s getting difficult.\
What are these outbursts of affection, Michael?\'94\
\
\'93I say, you are a lovely piece.\'94\
\
We said good night. \'93I\'92m sorry I can\'92t go,\'94 Mike said. Brett laughed. I\
looked back from the door. Mike had one hand on the bar and was leaning\
toward Brett, talking. Brett was looking at him quite coolly, but the\
corners of her eyes were smiling.\
\
Outside on the pavement I said: \'93Do you want to go to the fight?\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 said Bill. \'93If we don\'92t have to walk.\'94\
\
\'93Mike was pretty excited about his girl friend,\'94 I said in the taxi.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 said Bill. \'93You can\'92t blame him such a hell of a lot.\'94\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   9\
\
\
The Ledoux-Kid Francis fight was the night of the 20th of June. It was a\
good fight. The morning after the fight I had a letter from Robert Cohn,\
written from Hendaye. He was having a very quiet time, he said, bathing,\
playing some golf and much bridge. Hendaye had a splendid beach, but he\
was anxious to start on the fishing-trip. When would I be down? If I\
would buy him a double-tapered line he would pay me when I came down.\
\
That same morning I wrote Cohn from the office that Bill and I would\
leave Paris on the 25th unless I wired him otherwise, and would meet him\
at Bayonne, where we could get a bus over the mountains to Pamplona. The\
same evening about seven o\'92clock I stopped in at the Select to see\
Michael and Brett. They were not there, and I went over to the Dingo.\
They were inside sitting at the bar.\
\
\'93Hello, darling.\'94 Brett put out her hand.\
\
\'93Hello, Jake,\'94 Mike said. \'93I understand I was tight last night.\'94\
\
\'93Weren\'92t you, though,\'94 Brett said. \'93Disgraceful business.\'94\
\
\'93Look,\'94 said Mike, \'93when do you go down to Spain? Would you mind if we\
came down with you?\'94\
\
\'93It would be grand.\'94\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t mind, really? I\'92ve been at Pamplona, you know. Brett\'92s mad\
to go. You\'92re sure we wouldn\'92t just be a bloody nuisance?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk like a fool.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m a little tight, you know. I wouldn\'92t ask you like this if I\
weren\'92t. You\'92re sure you don\'92t mind?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, shut up, Michael,\'94 Brett said. \'93How can the man say he\'92d mind now?\
I\'92ll ask him later.\'94\
\
\'93But you don\'92t mind, do you?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t ask that again unless you want to make me sore. Bill and I go\
down on the morning of the 25th.\'94\
\
\'93By the way, where is Bill?\'94 Brett asked.\
\
\'93He\'92s out at Chantilly dining with some people.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a good chap.\'94\
\
\'93Splendid chap,\'94 said Mike. \'93He is, you know.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t remember him,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93I do. Remember him perfectly. Look, Jake, we\'92ll come down the night of\
the 25th. Brett can\'92t get up in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93Indeed not!\'94\
\
\'93If our money comes and you\'92re sure you don\'92t mind.\'94\
\
\'93It will come, all right. I\'92ll see to that.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me what tackle to send for.\'94\
\
\'93Get two or three rods with reels, and lines, and some flies.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t fish,\'94 Brett put in.\
\
\'93Get two rods, then, and Bill won\'92t have to buy one.\'94\
\
\'93Right,\'94 said Mike. \'93I\'92ll send a wire to the keeper.\'94\
\
\'93Won\'92t it be splendid,\'94 Brett said. \'93Spain! We _will_ have fun.\'94\
\
\'93The 25th. When is that?\'94\
\
\'93Saturday.\'94\
\
\'93We _will_ have to get ready.\'94\
\
\'93I say,\'94 said Mike, \'93I\'92m going to the barber\'92s.\'94\
\
\'93I must bathe,\'94 said Brett. \'93Walk up to the hotel with me, Jake. Be a\
good chap.\'94\
\
\'93We _have_ got the loveliest hotel,\'94 Mike said. \'93I think it\'92s a\
brothel!\'94\
\
\'93We left our bags here at the Dingo when we got in, and they asked us at\
this hotel if we wanted a room for the afternoon only. Seemed\
frightfully pleased we were going to stay all night.\'94\
\
\'93_I_ believe it\'92s a brothel,\'94 Mike said. \'93And _I_ should know.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, shut it and go and get your hair cut.\'94\
\
Mike went out. Brett and I sat on at the bar.\
\
\'93Have another?\'94\
\
\'93Might.\'94\
\
\'93I needed that,\'94 Brett said.\
\
We walked up the Rue Delambre.\
\
\'93I haven\'92t seen you since I\'92ve been back,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93How _are_ you, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93Fine.\'94\
\
Brett looked at me. \'93I say,\'94 she said, \'93is Robert Cohn going on this\
trip?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Why?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t you think it will be a bit rough on him?\'94\
\
\'93Why should it?\'94\
\
\'93Who did you think I went down to San Sebastian with?\'94\
\
\'93Congratulations,\'94 I said.\
\
We walked along.\
\
\'93What did you say that for?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. What would you like me to say?\'94\
\
We walked along and turned a corner.\
\
\'93He behaved rather well, too. He gets a little dull.\'94\
\
\'93Does he?\'94\
\
\'93I rather thought it would be good for him.\'94\
\
\'93You might take up social service.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be nasty.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Didn\'92t you really know?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I guess I didn\'92t think about it.\'94\
\
\'93Do you think it will be too rough on him?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s up to him,\'94 I said. \'93Tell him you\'92re coming. He can always not\
come.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll write him and give him a chance to pull out of it.\'94\
\
I did not see Brett again until the night of the 24th of June.\
\
\'93Did you hear from Cohn?\'94\
\
\'93Rather. He\'92s keen about it.\'94\
\
\'93My God!\'94\
\
\'93I thought it was rather odd myself.\'94\
\
\'93Says he can\'92t wait to see me.\'94\
\
\'93Does he think you\'92re coming alone?\'94\
\
\'93No. I told him we were all coming down together. Michael and all.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s wonderful.\'94\
\
\'93Isn\'92t he?\'94\
\
They expected their money the next day. We arranged to meet at Pamplona.\
They would go directly to San Sebastian and take the train from there.\
We would all meet at the Montoya in Pamplona. If they did not turn up on\
Monday at the latest we would go on ahead up to Burguete in the\
mountains, to start fishing. There was a bus to Burguete. I wrote out an\
itinerary so they could follow us.\
\
Bill and I took the morning train from the Gare d\'92Orsay. It was a lovely\
day, not too hot, and the country was beautiful from the start. We went\
back into the diner and had breakfast. Leaving the dining-car I asked\
the conductor for tickets for the first service.\
\
\'93Nothing until the fifth.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s this?\'94\
\
There were never more than two servings of lunch on that train, and\
always plenty of places for both of them.\
\
\'93They\'92re all reserved,\'94 the dining-car conductor said. \'93There will be a\
fifth service at three-thirty.\'94\
\
\'93This is serious,\'94 I said to Bill.\
\
\'93Give him ten francs.\'94\
\
\'93Here,\'94 I said. \'93We want to eat in the first service.\'94\
\
The conductor put the ten francs in his pocket.\
\
\'93Thank you,\'94 he said. \'93I would advise you gentlemen to get some\
sandwiches. All the places for the first four services were reserved at\
the office of the company.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll go a long way, brother,\'94 Bill said to him in English. \'93I suppose\
if I\'92d given you five francs you would have advised us to jump off the\
train.\'94\
\
\'93_Comment?_\'94\
\
\'93Go to hell!\'94 said Bill. \'93Get the sandwiches made and a bottle of wine.\
You tell him, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93And send it up to the next car.\'94 I described where we were.\
\
In our compartment were a man and his wife and their young son.\
\
\'93I suppose you\'92re Americans, aren\'92t you?\'94 the man asked. \'93Having a good\
trip?\'94\
\
\'93Wonderful,\'94 said Bill.\
\
\'93That\'92s what you want to do. Travel while you\'92re young. Mother and I\
always wanted to get over, but we had to wait a while.\'94\
\
\'93You could have come over ten years ago, if you\'92d wanted to,\'94 the wife\
said. \'93What you always said was: \'91See America first!\'92 I will say we\'92ve\
seen a good deal, take it one way and another.\'94\
\
\'93Say, there\'92s plenty of Americans on this train,\'94 the husband said.\
\'93They\'92ve got seven cars of them from Dayton, Ohio. They\'92ve been on a\
pilgrimage to Rome, and now they\'92re going down to Biarritz and Lourdes.\'94\
\
\'93So, that\'92s what they are. Pilgrims. Goddam Puritans,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93What part of the States you boys from?\'94\
\
\'93Kansas City,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s from Chicago.\'94\
\
\'93You both going to Biarritz?\'94\
\
\'93No. We\'92re going fishing in Spain.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I never cared for it, myself. There\'92s plenty that do out where I\
come from, though. We got some of the best fishing in the State of\
Montana. I\'92ve been out with the boys, but I never cared for it any.\'94\
\
\'93Mighty little fishing you did on them trips,\'94 his wife said.\
\
He winked at us.\
\
\'93You know how the ladies are. If there\'92s a jug goes along, or a case of\
beer, they think it\'92s hell and damnation.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s the way men are,\'94 his wife said to us. She smoothed her\
comfortable lap. \'93I voted against prohibition to please him, and because\
I like a little beer in the house, and then he talks that way. It\'92s a\
wonder they ever find any one to marry them.\'94\
\
\'93Say,\'94 said Bill, \'93do you know that gang of Pilgrim Fathers have\
cornered the dining-car until half past three this afternoon?\'94\
\
\'93How do you mean? They can\'92t do a thing like that.\'94\
\
\'93You try and get seats.\'94\
\
\'93Well, mother, it looks as though we better go back and get another\
breakfast.\'94\
\
She stood up and straightened her dress.\
\
\'93Will you boys keep an eye on our things? Come on, Hubert.\'94\
\
They all three went up to the wagon restaurant. A little while after\
they were gone a steward went through announcing the first service, and\
pilgrims, with their priests, commenced filing down the corridor. Our\
friend and his family did not come back. A waiter passed in the corridor\
with our sandwiches and the bottle of Chablis, and we called him in.\
\
\'93You\'92re going to work to-day,\'94 I said.\
\
He nodded his head. \'93They start now, at ten-thirty.\'94\
\
\'93When do we eat?\'94\
\
\'93Huh! When do I eat?\'94\
\
He left two glasses for the bottle, and we paid him for the sandwiches\
and tipped him.\
\
\'93I\'92ll get the plates,\'94 he said, \'93or bring them with you.\'94\
\
We ate the sandwiches and drank the Chablis and watched the country out\
of the window. The grain was just beginning to ripen and the fields were\
full of poppies. The pastureland was green, and there were fine trees,\
and sometimes big rivers and chateaux off in the trees.\
\
At Tours we got off and bought another bottle of wine, and when we got\
back in the compartment the gentleman from Montana and his wife and his\
son, Hubert, were sitting comfortably.\
\
\'93Is there good swimming in Biarritz?\'94 asked Hubert.\
\
\'93That boy\'92s just crazy till he can get in the water,\'94 his mother said.\
\'93It\'92s pretty hard on youngsters travelling.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s good swimming,\'94 I said. \'93But it\'92s dangerous when it\'92s rough.\'94\
\
\'93Did you get a meal?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93We sure did. We set right there when they started to come in, and they\
must have just thought we were in the party. One of the waiters said\
something to us in French, and then they just sent three of them back.\'94\
\
\'93They thought we were snappers, all right,\'94 the man said. \'93It certainly\
shows you the power of the Catholic Church. It\'92s a pity you boys ain\'92t\
Catholics. You could get a meal, then, all right.\'94\
\
\'93I am,\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s what makes me so sore.\'94\
\
Finally at a quarter past four we had lunch. Bill had been rather\
difficult at the last. He buttonholed a priest who was coming back with\
one of the returning streams of pilgrims.\
\
\'93When do us Protestants get a chance to eat, father?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know anything about it. Haven\'92t you got tickets?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s enough to make a man join the Klan,\'94 Bill said. The priest looked\
back at him.\
\
Inside the dining-car the waiters served the fifth successive table\
d\'92h\'f4te meal. The waiter who served us was soaked through. His white\
jacket was purple under the arms.\
\
\'93He must drink a lot of wine.\'94\
\
\'93Or wear purple undershirts.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s ask him.\'94\
\
\'93No. He\'92s too tired.\'94\
\
The train stopped for half an hour at Bordeaux and we went out through\
the station for a little walk. There was not time to get in to the town.\
Afterward we passed through the Landes and watched the sun set. There\
were wide fire-gaps cut through the pines, and you could look up them\
like avenues and see wooded hills way off. About seven-thirty we had\
dinner and watched the country through the open window in the diner. It\
was all sandy pine country full of heather. There were little clearings\
with houses in them, and once in a while we passed a sawmill. It got\
dark and we could feel the country hot and sandy and dark outside of the\
window, and about nine o\'92clock we got into Bayonne. The man and his wife\
and Hubert all shook hands with us. They were going on to LaNegresse to\
change for Biarritz.\
\
\'93Well, I hope you have lots of luck,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Be careful about those bull-fights.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe we\'92ll see you at Biarritz,\'94 Hubert said.\
\
We got off with our bags and rod-cases and passed through the dark\
station and out to the lights and the line of cabs and hotel buses.\
There, standing with the hotel runners, was Robert Cohn. He did not see\
us at first. Then he started forward.\
\
\'93Hello, Jake. Have a good trip?\'94\
\
\'93Fine,\'94 I said. \'93This is Bill Gorton.\'94\
\
\'93How are you?\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 said Robert. \'93I\'92ve got a cab.\'94 He was a little near-sighted.\
I had never noticed it before. He was looking at Bill, trying to make\
him out. He was shy, too.\
\
\'93We\'92ll go up to my hotel. It\'92s all right. It\'92s quite nice.\'94\
\
We got into the cab, and the cabman put the bags up on the seat beside\
him and climbed up and cracked his whip, and we drove over the dark\
bridge and into the town.\
\
\'93I\'92m awfully glad to meet you,\'94 Robert said to Bill. \'93I\'92ve heard so much\
about you from Jake and I\'92ve read your books. Did you get my line,\
Jake?\'94\
\
The cab stopped in front of the hotel and we all got out and went in. It\
was a nice hotel, and the people at the desk were very cheerful, and we\
each had a good small room.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   10\
\
\
In the morning it was bright, and they were sprinkling the streets of\
the town, and we all had breakfast in a caf\'e9. Bayonne is a nice town. It\
is like a very clean Spanish town and it is on a big river. Already, so\
early in the morning, it was very hot on the bridge across the river. We\
walked out on the bridge and then took a walk through the town.\
\
I was not at all sure Mike\'92s rods would come from Scotland in time, so\
we hunted a tackle store and finally bought a rod for Bill up-stairs\
over a drygoods store. The man who sold the tackle was out, and we had\
to wait for him to come back. Finally he came in, and we bought a pretty\
good rod cheap, and two landing-nets.\
\
We went out into the street again and took a look at the cathedral. Cohn\
made some remark about it being a very good example of something or\
other, I forget what. It seemed like a nice cathedral, nice and dim,\
like Spanish churches. Then we went up past the old fort and out to the\
local Syndicat d\'92Initiative office, where the bus was supposed to start\
from. There they told us the bus service did not start until the 1st of\
July. We found out at the tourist office what we ought to pay for a\
motor-car to Pamplona and hired one at a big garage just around the\
corner from the Municipal Theatre for four hundred francs. The car was\
to pick us up at the hotel in forty minutes, and we stopped at the caf\'e9\
on the square where we had eaten breakfast, and had a beer. It was hot,\
but the town had a cool, fresh, early-morning smell and it was pleasant\
sitting in the caf\'e9. A breeze started to blow, and you could feel that\
the air came from the sea. There were pigeons out in the square, and the\
houses were a yellow, sun-baked color, and I did not want to leave the\
caf\'e9. But we had to go to the hotel to get our bags packed and pay the\
bill. We paid for the beers, we matched and I think Cohn paid, and went\
up to the hotel. It was only sixteen francs apiece for Bill and me, with\
ten per cent added for the service, and we had the bags sent down and\
waited for Robert Cohn. While we were waiting I saw a cockroach on the\
parquet floor that must have been at least three inches long. I pointed\
him out to Bill and then put my shoe on him. We agreed he must have just\
come in from the garden. It was really an awfully clean hotel.\
\
Cohn came down, finally, and we all went out to the car. It was a big,\
closed car, with a driver in a white duster with blue collar and cuffs,\
and we had him put the back of the car down. He piled in the bags and we\
started off up the street and out of the town. We passed some lovely\
gardens and had a good look back at the town, and then we were out in\
the country, green and rolling, and the road climbing all the time. We\
passed lots of Basques with oxen, or cattle, hauling carts along the\
road, and nice farmhouses, low roofs, and all white-plastered. In the\
Basque country the land all looks very rich and green and the houses and\
villages look well-off and clean. Every village had a pelota court and\
on some of them kids were playing in the hot sun. There were signs on\
the walls of the churches saying it was forbidden to play pelota against\
them, and the houses in the villages had red tiled roofs, and then the\
road turned off and commenced to climb and we were going way up close\
along a hillside, with a valley below and hills stretched off back\
toward the sea. You couldn\'92t see the sea. It was too far away. You could\
see only hills and more hills, and you knew where the sea was.\
\
We crossed the Spanish frontier. There was a little stream and a bridge,\
and Spanish carabineers, with patent-leather Bonaparte hats, and short\
guns on their backs, on one side, and on the other fat Frenchmen in\
kepis and mustaches. They only opened one bag and took the passports in\
and looked at them. There was a general store and inn on each side of\
the line. The chauffeur had to go in and fill out some papers about the\
car and we got out and went over to the stream to see if there were any\
trout. Bill tried to talk some Spanish to one of the carabineers, but it\
did not go very well. Robert Cohn asked, pointing with his finger, if\
there were any trout in the stream, and the carabineer said yes, but not\
many.\
\
I asked him if he ever fished, and he said no, that he didn\'92t care for\
it.\
\
Just then an old man with long, sunburned hair and beard, and clothes\
that looked as though they were made of gunny-sacking, came striding up\
to the bridge. He was carrying a long staff, and he had a kid slung on\
his back, tied by the four legs, the head hanging down.\
\
The carabineer waved him back with his sword. The man turned without\
saying anything, and started back up the white road into Spain.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter with the old one?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93He hasn\'92t got any passport.\'94\
\
I offered the guard a cigarette. He took it and thanked me.\
\
\'93What will he do?\'94 I asked.\
\
The guard spat in the dust.\
\
\'93Oh, he\'92ll just wade across the stream.\'94\
\
\'93Do you have much smuggling?\'94\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 he said, \'93they go through.\'94\
\
The chauffeur came out, folding up the papers and putting them in the\
inside pocket of his coat. We all got in the car and it started up the\
white dusty road into Spain. For a while the country was much as it had\
been; then, climbing all the time, we crossed the top of a Col, the road\
winding back and forth on itself, and then it was really Spain. There\
were long brown mountains and a few pines and far-off forests of\
beech-trees on some of the mountainsides. The road went along the summit\
of the Col and then dropped down, and the driver had to honk, and slow\
up, and turn out to avoid running into two donkeys that were sleeping in\
the road. We came down out of the mountains and through an oak forest,\
and there were white cattle grazing in the forest. Down below there were\
grassy plains and clear streams, and then we crossed a stream and went\
through a gloomy little village, and started to climb again. We climbed\
up and up and crossed another high Col and turned along it, and the road\
ran down to the right, and we saw a whole new range of mountains off to\
the south, all brown and baked-looking and furrowed in strange shapes.\
\
After a while we came out of the mountains, and there were trees along\
both sides of the road, and a stream and ripe fields of grain, and the\
road went on, very white and straight ahead, and then lifted to a little\
rise, and off on the left was a hill with an old castle, with buildings\
close around it and a field of grain going right up to the walls and\
shifting in the wind. I was up in front with the driver and I turned\
around. Robert Cohn was asleep, but Bill looked and nodded his head.\
Then we crossed a wide plain, and there was a big river off on the right\
shining in the sun from between the line of trees, and away off you\
could see the plateau of Pamplona rising out of the plain, and the walls\
of the city, and the great brown cathedral, and the broken skyline of\
the other churches. In back of the plateau were the mountains, and every\
way you looked there were other mountains, and ahead the road stretched\
out white across the plain going toward Pamplona.\
\
We came into the town on the other side of the plateau, the road\
slanting up steeply and dustily with shade-trees on both sides, and then\
levelling out through the new part of town they are building up outside\
the old walls. We passed the bull-ring, high and white and\
concrete-looking in the sun, and then came into the big square by a side\
street and stopped in front of the Hotel Montoya.\
\
The driver helped us down with the bags. There was a crowd of kids\
watching the car, and the square was hot, and the trees were green, and\
the flags hung on their staffs, and it was good to get out of the sun\
and under the shade of the arcade that runs all the way around the\
square. Montoya was glad to see us, and shook hands and gave us good\
rooms looking out on the square, and then we washed and cleaned up and\
went down-stairs in the dining-room for lunch. The driver stayed for\
lunch, too, and afterward we paid him and he started back to Bayonne.\
\
There are two dining-rooms in the Montoya. One is up-stairs on the\
second floor and looks out on the square. The other is down one floor\
below the level of the square and has a door that opens on the back\
street that the bulls pass along when they run through the streets early\
in the morning on their way to the ring. It is always cool in the\
down-stairs dining-room and we had a very good lunch. The first meal in\
Spain was always a shock with the hors d\'92\'9cuvres, an egg course, two meat\
courses, vegetables, salad, and dessert and fruit. You have to drink\
plenty of wine to get it all down. Robert Cohn tried to say he did not\
want any of the second meat course, but we would not interpret for him,\
and so the waitress brought him something else as a replacement, a plate\
of cold meats, I think. Cohn had been rather nervous ever since we had\
met at Bayonne. He did not know whether we knew Brett had been with him\
at San Sebastian, and it made him rather awkward.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93Brett and Mike ought to get in to-night.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not sure they\'92ll come,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93Why not?\'94 Bill said. \'93Of course they\'92ll come.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re always late,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I rather think they\'92re not coming,\'94 Robert Cohn said.\
\
He said it with an air of superior knowledge that irritated both of us.\
\
\'93I\'92ll bet you fifty pesetas they\'92re here to-night,\'94 Bill said. He always\
bets when he is angered, and so he usually bets foolishly.\
\
\'93I\'92ll take it,\'94 Cohn said. \'93Good. You remember it, Jake. Fifty pesetas.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll remember it myself,\'94 Bill said. I saw he was angry and wanted to\
smooth him down.\
\
\'93It\'92s a sure thing they\'92ll come,\'94 I said. \'93But maybe not to-night.\'94\
\
\'93Want to call it off?\'94 Cohn asked.\
\
\'93No. Why should I? Make it a hundred if you like.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I\'92ll take that.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s enough,\'94 I said. \'93Or you\'92ll have to make a book and give me some\
of it.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m satisfied,\'94 Cohn said. He smiled. \'93You\'92ll probably win it back at\
bridge, anyway.\'94\
\
\'93You haven\'92t got it yet,\'94 Bill said.\
\
We went out to walk around under the arcade to the Caf\'e9 Iru\'f1a for\
coffee. Cohn said he was going over and get a shave.\
\
\'93Say,\'94 Bill said to me, \'93have I got any chance on that bet?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve got a rotten chance. They\'92ve never been on time anywhere. If\
their money doesn\'92t come it\'92s a cinch they won\'92t get in to-night.\'94\
\
\'93I was sorry as soon as I opened my mouth. But I had to call him. He\'92s\
all right, I guess, but where does he get this inside stuff? Mike and\
Brett fixed it up with us about coming down here.\'94\
\
I saw Cohn coming over across the square.\
\
\'93Here he comes.\'94\
\
\'93Well, let him not get superior and Jewish.\'94\
\
\'93The barber shop\'92s closed,\'94 Cohn said. \'93It\'92s not open till four.\'94\
\
We had coffee at the Iru\'f1a, sitting in comfortable wicker chairs looking\
out from the cool of the arcade at the big square. After a while Bill\
went to write some letters and Cohn went over to the barber-shop. It was\
still closed, so he decided to go up to the hotel and get a bath, and I\
sat out in front of the caf\'e9 and then went for a walk in the town. It\
was very hot, but I kept on the shady side of the streets and went\
through the market and had a good time seeing the town again. I went to\
the Ayuntamiento and found the old gentleman who subscribes for the\
bull-fight tickets for me every year, and he had gotten the money I sent\
him from Paris and renewed my subscriptions, so that was all set. He was\
the archivist, and all the archives of the town were in his office. That\
has nothing to do with the story. Anyway, his office had a green baize\
door and a big wooden door, and when I went out I left him sitting among\
the archives that covered all the walls, and I shut both the doors, and\
as I went out of the building into the street the porter stopped me to\
brush off my coat.\
\
\'93You must have been in a motor-car,\'94 he said.\
\
The back of the collar and the upper part of the shoulders were gray\
with dust.\
\
\'93From Bayonne.\'94\
\
\'93Well, well,\'94 he said. \'93I knew you were in a motor-car from the way the\
dust was.\'94 So I gave him two copper coins.\
\
At the end of the street I saw the cathedral and walked up toward it.\
The first time I ever saw it I thought the fa\'e7ade was ugly but I liked\
it now. I went inside. It was dim and dark and the pillars went high up,\
and there were people praying, and it smelt of incense, and there were\
some wonderful big windows. I knelt and started to pray and prayed for\
everybody I thought of, Brett and Mike and Bill and Robert Cohn and\
myself, and all the bull-fighters, separately for the ones I liked, and\
lumping all the rest, then I prayed for myself again, and while I was\
praying for myself I found I was getting sleepy, so I prayed that the\
bull-fights would be good, and that it would be a fine fiesta, and that\
we would get some fishing. I wondered if there was anything else I might\
pray for, and I thought I would like to have some money, so I prayed\
that I would make a lot of money, and then I started to think how I\
would make it, and thinking of making money reminded me of the count,\
and I started wondering about where he was, and regretting I hadn\'92t seen\
him since that night in Montmartre, and about something funny Brett told\
me about him, and as all the time I was kneeling with my forehead on the\
wood in front of me, and was thinking of myself as praying, I was a\
little ashamed, and regretted that I was such a rotten Catholic, but\
realized there was nothing I could do about it, at least for a while,\
and maybe never, but that anyway it was a grand religion, and I only\
wished I felt religious and maybe I would the next time; and then I was\
out in the hot sun on the steps of the cathedral, and the forefingers\
and the thumb of my right hand were still damp, and I felt them dry in\
the sun. The sunlight was hot and hard, and I crossed over beside some\
buildings, and walked back along side-streets to the hotel.\
\
At dinner that night we found that Robert Cohn had taken a bath, had had\
a shave and a haircut and a shampoo, and something put on his hair\
afterward to make it stay down. He was nervous, and I did not try to\
help him any. The train was due in at nine o\'92clock from San Sebastian,\
and, if Brett and Mike were coming, they would be on it. At twenty\
minutes to nine we were not half through dinner. Robert Cohn got up from\
the table and said he would go to the station. I said I would go with\
him, just to devil him. Bill said he would be damned if he would leave\
his dinner. I said we would be right back.\
\
We walked to the station. I was enjoying Cohn\'92s nervousness. I hoped\
Brett would be on the train. At the station the train was late, and we\
sat on a baggage-truck and waited outside in the dark. I have never seen\
a man in civil life as nervous as Robert Cohn\'97nor as eager. I was\
enjoying it. It was lousy to enjoy it, but I felt lousy. Cohn had a\
wonderful quality of bringing out the worst in anybody.\
\
After a while we heard the train-whistle way off below on the other side\
of the plateau, and then we saw the headlight coming up the hill. We\
went inside the station and stood with a crowd of people just back of\
the gates, and the train came in and stopped, and everybody started\
coming out through the gates.\
\
They were not in the crowd. We waited till everybody had gone through\
and out of the station and gotten into buses, or taken cabs, or were\
walking with their friends or relatives through the dark into the town.\
\
\'93I knew they wouldn\'92t come,\'94 Robert said. We were going back to the\
hotel.\
\
\'93I thought they might,\'94 I said.\
\
Bill was eating fruit when we came in and finishing a bottle of wine.\
\
\'93Didn\'92t come, eh?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Do you mind if I give you that hundred pesetas in the morning, Cohn?\'94\
Bill asked. \'93I haven\'92t changed any money here yet.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, forget about it,\'94 Robert Cohn said. \'93Let\'92s bet on something else.\
Can you bet on bull-fights?\'94\
\
\'93You could,\'94 Bill said, \'93but you don\'92t need to.\'94\
\
\'93It would be like betting on the war,\'94 I said. \'93You don\'92t need any\
economic interest.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m very curious to see them,\'94 Robert said.\
\
Montoya came up to our table. He had a telegram in his hand. \'93It\'92s for\
you.\'94 He handed it to me.\
\
It read: \'93Stopped night San Sebastian.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s from them,\'94 I said. I put it in my pocket. Ordinarily I should\
have handed it over.\
\
\'93They\'92ve stopped over in San Sebastian,\'94 I said. \'93Send their regards to\
you.\'94\
\
Why I felt that impulse to devil him I do not know. Of course I do know.\
I was blind, unforgivingly jealous of what had happened to him. The fact\
that I took it as a matter of course did not alter that any. I certainly\
did hate him. I do not think I ever really hated him until he had that\
little spell of superiority at lunch\'97that and when he went through all\
that barbering. So I put the telegram in my pocket. The telegram came to\
me, anyway.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said. \'93We ought to pull out on the noon bus for Burguete. They\
can follow us if they get in to-morrow night.\'94\
\
There were only two trains up from San Sebastian, an early morning train\
and the one we had just met.\
\
\'93That sounds like a good idea,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93The sooner we get on the stream the better.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all one to me when we start,\'94 Bill said. \'93The sooner the better.\'94\
\
We sat in the Iru\'f1a for a while and had coffee and then took a little\
walk out to the bull-ring and across the field and under the trees at\
the edge of the cliff and looked down at the river in the dark, and I\
turned in early. Bill and Cohn stayed out in the caf\'e9 quite late, I\
believe, because I was asleep when they came in.\
\
In the morning I bought three tickets for the bus to Burguete. It was\
scheduled to leave at two o\'92clock. There was nothing earlier. I was\
sitting over at the Iru\'f1a reading the papers when I saw Robert Cohn\
coming across the square. He came up to the table and sat down in one of\
the wicker chairs.\
\
\'93This is a comfortable caf\'e9,\'94 he said. \'93Did you have a good night,\
Jake?\'94\
\
\'93I slept like a log.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t sleep very well. Bill and I were out late, too.\'94\
\
\'93Where were you?\'94\
\
\'93Here. And after it shut we went over to that other caf\'e9. The old man\
there speaks German and English.\'94\
\
\'93The Caf\'e9 Suizo.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it. He seems like a nice old fellow. I think it\'92s a better caf\'e9\
than this one.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not so good in the daytime,\'94 I said. \'93Too hot. By the way, I got\
the bus tickets.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not going up to-day. You and Bill go on ahead.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got your ticket.\'94\
\
\'93Give it to me. I\'92ll get the money back.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s five pesetas.\'94\
\
Robert Cohn took out a silver five-peseta piece and gave it to me.\
\
\'93I ought to stay,\'94 he said. \'93You see I\'92m afraid there\'92s some sort of\
misunderstanding.\'94\
\
\'93Why,\'94 I said. \'93They may not come here for three or four days now if\
they start on parties at San Sebastian.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s just it,\'94 said Robert. \'93I\'92m afraid they expected to meet me at\
San Sebastian, and that\'92s why they stopped over.\'94\
\
\'93What makes you think that?\'94\
\
\'93Well, I wrote suggesting it to Brett.\'94\
\
\'93Why in hell didn\'92t you stay there and meet them then?\'94 I started to\
say, but I stopped. I thought that idea would come to him by itself, but\
I do not believe it ever did.\
\
He was being confidential now and it was giving him pleasure to be able\
to talk with the understanding that I knew there was something between\
him and Brett.\
\
\'93Well, Bill and I will go up right after lunch,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I wish I could go. We\'92ve been looking forward to this fishing all\
winter.\'94 He was being sentimental about it. \'93But I ought to stay. I\
really ought. As soon as they come I\'92ll bring them right up.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s find Bill.\'94\
\
\'93I want to go over to the barber-shop.\'94\
\
\'93See you at lunch.\'94\
\
I found Bill up in his room. He was shaving.\
\
\'93Oh, yes, he told me all about it last night,\'94 Bill said. \'93He\'92s a great\
little confider. He said he had a date with Brett at San Sebastian.\'94\
\
\'93The lying bastard!\'94\
\
\'93Oh, no,\'94 said Bill. \'93Don\'92t get sore. Don\'92t get sore at this stage of\
the trip. How did you ever happen to know this fellow, anyway?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t rub it in.\'94\
\
Bill looked around, half-shaved, and then went on talking into the\
mirror while he lathered his face.\
\
\'93Didn\'92t you send him with a letter to me in New York last winter? Thank\
God, I\'92m a travelling man. Haven\'92t you got some more Jewish friends you\
could bring along?\'94 He rubbed his chin with his thumb, looked at it, and\
then started scraping again.\
\
\'93You\'92ve got some fine ones yourself.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. I\'92ve got some darbs. But not alongside of this Robert Cohn.\
The funny thing is he\'92s nice, too. I like him. But he\'92s just so awful.\'94\
\
\'93He can be damn nice.\'94\
\
\'93I know it. That\'92s the terrible part.\'94\
\
I laughed.\
\
\'93Yes. Go on and laugh,\'94 said Bill. \'93You weren\'92t out with him last night\
until two o\'92clock.\'94\
\
\'93Was he very bad?\'94\
\
\'93Awful. What\'92s all this about him and Brett, anyway? Did she ever have\
anything to do with him?\'94\
\
He raised his chin up and pulled it from side to side.\
\
\'93Sure. She went down to San Sebastian with him.\'94\
\
\'93What a damn-fool thing to do. Why did she do that?\'94\
\
\'93She wanted to get out of town and she can\'92t go anywhere alone. She said\
she thought it would be good for him.\'94\
\
\'93What bloody-fool things people do. Why didn\'92t she go off with some of\
her own people? Or you?\'94\'97he slurred that over\'97\'93or me? Why not me?\'94 He\
looked at his face carefully in the glass, put a big dab of lather on\
each cheek-bone. \'93It\'92s an honest face. It\'92s a face any woman would be\
safe with.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92d never seen it.\'94\
\
\'93She should have. All women should see it. It\'92s a face that ought to be\
thrown on every screen in the country. Every woman ought to be given a\
copy of this face as she leaves the altar. Mothers should tell their\
daughters about this face. My son\'94\'97he pointed the razor at me\'97\'93go west\
with this face and grow up with the country.\'94\
\
He ducked down to the bowl, rinsed his face with cold water, put on some\
alcohol, and then looked at himself carefully in the glass, pulling down\
his long upper lip.\
\
\'93My God!\'94 he said, \'93isn\'92t it an awful face?\'94\
\
He looked in the glass.\
\
\'93And as for this Robert Cohn,\'94 Bill said, \'93he makes me sick, and he can\
go to hell, and I\'92m damn glad he\'92s staying here so we won\'92t have him\
fishing with us.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re damn right.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re going trout-fishing. We\'92re going trout-fishing in the Irati\
River, and we\'92re going to get tight now at lunch on the wine of the\
country, and then take a swell bus ride.\'94\
\
\'93Come on. Let\'92s go over to the Iru\'f1a and start,\'94 I said.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   11\
\
\
It was baking hot in the square when we came out after lunch with our\
bags and the rod-case to go to Burguete. People were on top of the bus,\
and others were climbing up a ladder. Bill went up and Robert sat beside\
Bill to save a place for me, and I went back in the hotel to get a\
couple of bottles of wine to take with us. When I came out the bus was\
crowded. Men and women were sitting on all the baggage and boxes on top,\
and the women all had their fans going in the sun. It certainly was hot.\
Robert climbed down and I fitted into the place he had saved on the one\
wooden seat that ran across the top.\
\
Robert Cohn stood in the shade of the arcade waiting for us start. A\
Basque with a big leather wine-bag in his lap lay across the top of the\
bus in front of our seat, leaning back against our legs. He offered the\
wine-skin to Bill and to me, and when I tipped it up to drink he\
imitated the sound of a klaxon motor-horn so well and so suddenly that I\
spilled some of the wine, and everybody laughed. He apologized and made\
me take another drink. He made the klaxon again a little later, and it\
fooled me the second time. He was very good at it. The Basques liked it.\
The man next to Bill was talking to him in Spanish and Bill was not\
getting it, so he offered the man one of the bottles of wine. The man\
waved it away. He said it was too hot and he had drunk too much at\
lunch. When Bill offered the bottle the second time he took a long\
drink, and then the bottle went all over that part of the bus. Every one\
took a drink very politely, and then they made us cork it up and put it\
away. They all wanted us to drink from their leather wine-bottles. They\
were peasants going up into the hills.\
\
Finally, after a couple more false klaxons, the bus started, and Robert\
Cohn waved good-by to us, and all the Basques waved good-by to him. As\
soon as we started out on the road outside of town it was cool. It felt\
nice riding high up and close under the trees. The bus went quite fast\
and made a good breeze, and as we went out along the road with the dust\
powdering the trees and down the hill, we had a fine view, back through\
the trees, of the town rising up from the bluff above the river. The\
Basque lying against my knees pointed out the view with the neck of the\
wine-bottle, and winked at us. He nodded his head.\
\
\'93Pretty nice, eh?\'94\
\
\'93These Basques are swell people,\'94 Bill said.\
\
The Basque lying against my legs was tanned the color of saddle-leather.\
He wore a black smock like all the rest. There were wrinkles in his\
tanned neck. He turned around and offered his wine-bag to Bill. Bill\
handed him one of our bottles. The Basque wagged a forefinger at him and\
handed the bottle back, slapping in the cork with the palm of his hand.\
He shoved the wine-bag up.\
\
\'93Arriba! Arriba!\'94 he said. \'93Lift it up.\'94\
\
Bill raised the wine-skin and let the stream of wine spurt out and into\
his mouth, his head tipped back. When he stopped drinking and tipped the\
leather bottle down a few drops ran down his chin.\
\
\'93No! No!\'94 several Basques said. \'93Not like that.\'94 One snatched the bottle\
away from the owner, who was himself about to give a demonstration. He\
was a young fellow and he held the wine-bottle at full arms\'92 length and\
raised it high up, squeezing the leather bag with his hand so the stream\
of wine hissed into his mouth. He held the bag out there, the wine\
making a flat, hard trajectory into his mouth, and he kept on swallowing\
smoothly and regularly.\
\
\'93Hey!\'94 the owner of the bottle shouted. \'93Whose wine is that?\'94\
\
The drinker waggled his little finger at him and smiled at us with his\
eyes. Then he bit the stream off sharp, made a quick lift with the\
wine-bag and lowered it down to the owner. He winked at us. The owner\
shook the wine-skin sadly.\
\
We passed through a town and stopped in front of the posada, and the\
driver took on several packages. Then we started on again, and outside\
the town the road commenced to mount. We were going through farming\
country with rocky hills that sloped down into the fields. The\
grain-fields went up the hillsides. Now as we went higher there was a\
wind blowing the grain. The road was white and dusty, and the dust rose\
under the wheels and hung in the air behind us. The road climbed up into\
the hills and left the rich grain-fields below. Now there were only\
patches of grain on the bare hillsides and on each side of the\
water-courses. We turned sharply out to the side of the road to give\
room to pass to a long string of six mules, following one after the\
other, hauling a high-hooded wagon loaded with freight. The wagon and\
the mules were covered with dust. Close behind was another string of\
mules and another wagon. This was loaded with lumber, and the arriero\
driving the mules leaned back and put on the thick wooden brakes as we\
passed. Up here the country was quite barren and the hills were rocky\
and hard-baked clay furrowed by the rain.\
\
We came around a curve into a town, and on both sides opened out a\
sudden green valley. A stream went through the centre of the town and\
fields of grapes touched the houses.\
\
The bus stopped in front of a posada and many of the passengers got\
down, and a lot of the baggage was unstrapped from the roof from under\
the big tarpaulins and lifted down. Bill and I got down and went into\
the posada. There was a low, dark room with saddles and harness, and\
hay-forks made of white wood, and clusters of canvas rope-soled shoes\
and hams and slabs of bacon and white garlics and long sausages hanging\
from the roof. It was cool and dusky, and we stood in front of a long\
wooden counter with two women behind it serving drinks. Behind them were\
shelves stacked with supplies and goods.\
\
We each had an aguardiente and paid forty centimes for the two drinks. I\
gave the woman fifty centimes to make a tip, and she gave me back the\
copper piece, thinking I had misunderstood the price.\
\
Two of our Basques came in and insisted on buying a drink. So they\
bought a drink and then we bought a drink, and then they slapped us on\
the back and bought another drink. Then we bought, and then we all went\
out into the sunlight and the heat, and climbed back on top of the bus.\
There was plenty of room now for every one to sit on the seat, and the\
Basque who had been lying on the tin roof now sat between us. The woman\
who had been serving drinks came out wiping her hands on her apron and\
talked to somebody inside the bus. Then the driver came out swinging two\
flat leather mail-pouches and climbed up, and everybody waving we\
started off.\
\
The road left the green valley at once, and we were up in the hills\
again. Bill and the wine-bottle Basque were having a conversation. A man\
leaned over from the other side of the seat and asked in English:\
\'93You\'92re Americans?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93I been there,\'94 he said. \'93Forty years ago.\'94\
\
He was an old man, as brown as the others, with the stubble of a white\
beard.\
\
\'93How was it?\'94\
\
\'93What you say?\'94\
\
\'93How was America?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I was in California. It was fine.\'94\
\
\'93Why did you leave?\'94\
\
\'93What you say?\'94\
\
\'93Why did you come back here?\'94\
\
\'93Oh! I come back to get married. I was going to go back but my wife she\
don\'92t like to travel. Where you from?\'94\
\
\'93Kansas City.\'94\
\
\'93I been there,\'94 he said. \'93I been in Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City,\
Denver, Los Angeles, Salt Lake City.\'94\
\
He named them carefully.\
\
\'93How long were you over?\'94\
\
\'93Fifteen years. Then I come back and got married.\'94\
\
\'93Have a drink?\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 he said. \'93You can\'92t get this in America, eh?\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s plenty if you can pay for it.\'94\
\
\'93What you come over here for?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re going to the fiesta at Pamplona.\'94\
\
\'93You like the bull-fights?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. Don\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 he said. \'93I guess I like them.\'94\
\
Then after a little:\
\
\'93Where you go now?\'94\
\
\'93Up to Burguete to fish.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he said, \'93I hope you catch something.\'94\
\
He shook hands and turned around to the back seat again. The other\
Basques had been impressed. He sat back comfortably and smiled at me\
when I turned around to look at the country. But the effort of talking\
American seemed to have tired him. He did not say anything after that.\
\
The bus climbed steadily up the road. The country was barren and rocks\
stuck up through the clay. There was no grass beside the road. Looking\
back we could see the country spread out below. Far back the fields were\
squares of green and brown on the hillsides. Making the horizon were the\
brown mountains. They were strangely shaped. As we climbed higher the\
horizon kept changing. As the bus ground slowly up the road we could see\
other mountains coming up in the south. Then the road came over the\
crest, flattened out, and went into a forest. It was a forest of cork\
oaks, and the sun came through the trees in patches, and there were\
cattle grazing back in the trees. We went through the forest and the\
road came out and turned along a rise of land, and out ahead of us was a\
rolling green plain, with dark mountains beyond it. These were not like\
the brown, heat-baked mountains we had left behind. These were wooded\
and there were clouds coming down from them. The green plain stretched\
off. It was cut by fences and the white of the road showed through the\
trunks of a double line of trees that crossed the plain toward the\
north. As we came to the edge of the rise we saw the red roofs and white\
houses of Burguete ahead strung out on the plain, and away off on the\
shoulder of the first dark mountain was the gray metal-sheathed roof of\
the monastery of Roncesvalles.\
\
\'93There\'92s Roncevaux,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Where?\'94\
\
\'93Way off there where the mountain starts.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s cold up here,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93It\'92s high,\'94 I said. \'93It must be twelve hundred metres.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s awful cold,\'94 Bill said.\
\
The bus levelled down onto the straight line of road that ran to\
Burguete. We passed a crossroads and crossed a bridge over a stream. The\
houses of Burguete were along both sides of the road. There were no\
side-streets. We passed the church and the school-yard, and the bus\
stopped. We got down and the driver handed down our bags and the\
rod-case. A carabineer in his cocked hat and yellow leather cross-straps\
came up.\
\
\'93What\'92s in there?\'94 he pointed to the rod-case.\
\
I opened it and showed him. He asked to see our fishing permits and I\
got them out. He looked at the date and then waved us on.\
\
\'93Is that all right?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Yes. Of course.\'94\
\
We went up the street, past the whitewashed stone houses, families\
sitting in their doorways watching us, to the inn.\
\
The fat woman who ran the inn came out from the kitchen and shook hands\
with us. She took off her spectacles, wiped them, and put them on again.\
It was cold in the inn and the wind was starting to blow outside. The\
woman sent a girl up-stairs with us to show the room. There were two\
beds, a washstand, a clothes-chest, and a big, framed steel-engraving of\
Nuestra Se\'f1ora de Roncesvalles. The wind was blowing against the\
shutters. The room was on the north side of the inn. We washed, put on\
sweaters, and came down-stairs into the dining-room. It had a stone\
floor, low ceiling, and was oak-panelled. The shutters were up and it\
was so cold you could see your breath.\
\
\'93My God!\'94 said Bill. \'93It can\'92t be this cold to-morrow. I\'92m not going to\
wade a stream in this weather.\'94\
\
There was an upright piano in the far corner of the room beyond the\
wooden tables and Bill went over and started to play.\
\
\'93I got to keep warm,\'94 he said.\
\
I went out to find the woman and ask her how much the room and board\
was. She put her hands under her apron and looked away from me.\
\
\'93Twelve pesetas.\'94\
\
\'93Why, we only paid that in Pamplona.\'94\
\
She did not say anything, just took off her glasses and wiped them on\
her apron.\
\
\'93That\'92s too much,\'94 I said. \'93We didn\'92t pay more than that at a big\
hotel.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve put in a bathroom.\'94\
\
\'93Haven\'92t you got anything cheaper?\'94\
\
\'93Not in the summer. Now is the big season.\'94\
\
We were the only people in the inn. Well, I thought, it\'92s only a few\
days.\
\
\'93Is the wine included?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s all right.\'94\
\
I went back to Bill. He blew his breath at me to show how cold it was,\
and went on playing. I sat at one of the tables and looked at the\
pictures on the wall. There was one panel of rabbits, dead, one of\
pheasants, also dead, and one panel of dead ducks. The panels were all\
dark and smoky-looking. There was a cupboard full of liqueur bottles. I\
looked at them all. Bill was still playing. \'93How about a hot rum punch?\'94\
he said. \'93This isn\'92t going to keep me warm permanently.\'94\
\
I went out and told the woman what a rum punch was and how to make it.\
In a few minutes a girl brought a stone pitcher, steaming, into the\
room. Bill came over from the piano and we drank the hot punch and\
listened to the wind.\
\
\'93There isn\'92t too much rum in that.\'94\
\
I went over to the cupboard and brought the rum bottle and poured a\
half-tumblerful into the pitcher.\
\
\'93Direct action,\'94 said Bill. \'93It beats legislation.\'94\
\
The girl came in and laid the table for supper.\
\
\'93It blows like hell up here,\'94 Bill said.\
\
The girl brought in a big bowl of hot vegetable soup and the wine. We\
had fried trout afterward and some sort of a stew and a big bowl full of\
wild strawberries. We did not lose money on the wine, and the girl was\
shy but nice about bringing it. The old woman looked in once and counted\
the empty bottles.\
\
After supper we went up-stairs and smoked and read in bed to keep warm.\
Once in the night I woke and heard the wind blowing. It felt good to be\
warm and in bed.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   12\
\
\
When I woke in the morning I went to the window and looked out. It had\
cleared and there were no clouds on the mountains. Outside under the\
window were some carts and an old diligence, the wood of the roof\
cracked and split by the weather. It must have been left from the days\
before the motor-buses. A goat hopped up on one of the carts and then to\
the roof of the diligence. He jerked his head at the other goats below\
and when I waved at him he bounded down.\
\
Bill was still sleeping, so I dressed, put on my shoes outside in the\
hall, and went down-stairs. No one was stirring down-stairs, so I\
unbolted the door and went out. It was cool outside in the early morning\
and the sun had not yet dried the dew that had come when the wind died\
down. I hunted around in the shed behind the inn and found a sort of\
mattock, and went down toward the stream to try and dig some worms for\
bait. The stream was clear and shallow but it did not look trouty. On\
the grassy bank where it was damp I drove the mattock into the earth and\
loosened a chunk of sod. There were worms underneath. They slid out of\
sight as I lifted the sod and I dug carefully and got a good many.\
Digging at the edge of the damp ground I filled two empty tobacco-tins\
with worms and sifted dirt onto them. The goats watched me dig.\
\
When I went back into the inn the woman was down in the kitchen, and I\
asked her to get coffee for us, and that we wanted a lunch. Bill was\
awake and sitting on the edge of the bed.\
\
\'93I saw you out of the window,\'94 he said. \'93Didn\'92t want to interrupt you.\
What were you doing? Burying your money?\'94\
\
\'93You lazy bum!\'94\
\
\'93Been working for the common good? Splendid. I want you to do that every\
morning.\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 I said. \'93Get up.\'94\
\
\'93What? Get up? I never get up.\'94\
\
He climbed into bed and pulled the sheet up to his chin.\
\
\'93Try and argue me into getting up.\'94\
\
I went on looking for the tackle and putting it all together in the\
tackle-bag.\
\
\'93Aren\'92t you interested?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93I\'92m going down and eat.\'94\
\
\'93Eat? Why didn\'92t you say eat? I thought you just wanted me to get up for\
fun. Eat? Fine. Now you\'92re reasonable. You go out and dig some more\
worms and I\'92ll be right down.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, go to hell!\'94\
\
\'93Work for the good of all.\'94 Bill stepped into his underclothes. \'93Show\
irony and pity.\'94\
\
I started out of the room with the tackle-bag, the nets, and the\
rod-case.\
\
\'93Hey! come back!\'94\
\
I put my head in the door.\
\
\'93Aren\'92t you going to show a little irony and pity?\'94\
\
I thumbed my nose.\
\
\'93That\'92s not irony.\'94\
\
As I went down-stairs I heard Bill singing, \'93Irony and Pity. When you\'92re\
feeling . . . Oh, Give them Irony and Give them Pity. Oh, give them\
Irony. When they\'92re feeling . . . Just a little irony. Just a little\
pity . . .\'94 He kept on singing until he came down-stairs. The tune was:\
\'93The Bells are Ringing for Me and my Gal.\'94 I was reading a week-old\
Spanish paper.\
\
\'93What\'92s all this irony and pity?\'94\
\
\'93What? Don\'92t you know about Irony and Pity?\'94\
\
\'93No. Who got it up?\'94\
\
\'93Everybody. They\'92re mad about it in New York. It\'92s just like the\
Fratellinis used to be.\'94\
\
The girl came in with the coffee and buttered toast. Or, rather, it was\
bread toasted and buttered.\
\
\'93Ask her if she\'92s got any jam,\'94 Bill said. \'93Be ironical with her.\'94\
\
\'93Have you got any jam?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s not ironical. I wish I could talk Spanish.\'94\
\
The coffee was good and we drank it out of big bowls. The girl brought\
in a glass dish of raspberry jam.\
\
\'93Thank you.\'94\
\
\'93Hey! that\'92s not the way,\'94 Bill said. \'93Say something ironical. Make some\
crack about Primo de Rivera.\'94\
\
\'93I could ask her what kind of a jam they think they\'92ve gotten into in\
the Riff.\'94\
\
\'93Poor,\'94 said Bill. \'93Very poor. You can\'92t do it. That\'92s all. You don\'92t\
understand irony. You have no pity. Say something pitiful.\'94\
\
\'93Robert Cohn.\'94\
\
\'93Not so bad. That\'92s better. Now why is Cohn pitiful? Be ironic.\'94\
\
He took a big gulp of coffee.\
\
\'93Aw, hell!\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s too early in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93There you go. And you claim you want to be a writer, too. You\'92re only a\
newspaper man. An expatriated newspaper man. You ought to be ironical\
the minute you get out of bed. You ought to wake up with your mouth full\
of pity.\'94\
\
\'93Go on,\'94 I said. \'93Who did you get this stuff from?\'94\
\
\'93Everybody. Don\'92t you read? Don\'92t you ever see anybody? You know what\
you are? You\'92re an expatriate. Why don\'92t you live in New York? Then\
you\'92d know these things. What do you want me to do? Come over here and\
tell you every year?\'94\
\
\'93Take some more coffee,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Good. Coffee is good for you. It\'92s the caffeine in it. Caffeine, we are\
here. Caffeine puts a man on her horse and a woman in his grave. You\
know what\'92s the trouble with you? You\'92re an expatriate. One of the worst\
type. Haven\'92t you heard that? Nobody that ever left their own country\
ever wrote anything worth printing. Not even in the newspapers.\'94\
\
He drank the coffee.\
\
\'93You\'92re an expatriate. You\'92ve lost touch with the soil. You get\
precious. Fake European standards have ruined you. You drink yourself to\
death. You become obsessed by sex. You spend all your time talking, not\
working. You are an expatriate, see? You hang around caf\'e9s.\'94\
\
\'93It sounds like a swell life,\'94 I said. \'93When do I work?\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t work. One group claims women support you. Another group\
claims you\'92re impotent.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93I just had an accident.\'94\
\
\'93Never mention that,\'94 Bill said. \'93That\'92s the sort of thing that can\'92t be\
spoken of. That\'92s what you ought to work up into a mystery. Like Henry\'92s\
bicycle.\'94\
\
He had been going splendidly, but he stopped. I was afraid he thought he\
had hurt me with that crack about being impotent. I wanted to start him\
again.\
\
\'93It wasn\'92t a bicycle,\'94 I said. \'93He was riding horseback.\'94\
\
\'93I heard it was a tricycle.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said. \'93A plane is sort of like a tricycle. The joystick works\
the same way.\'94\
\
\'93But you don\'92t pedal it.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said, \'93I guess you don\'92t pedal it.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s lay off that,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93All right. I was just standing up for the tricycle.\'94\
\
\'93I think he\'92s a good writer, too,\'94 Bill said. \'93And you\'92re a hell of a\
good guy. Anybody ever tell you you were a good guy?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not a good guy.\'94\
\
\'93Listen. You\'92re a hell of a good guy, and I\'92m fonder of you than anybody\
on earth. I couldn\'92t tell you that in New York. It\'92d mean I was a\
faggot. That was what the Civil War was about. Abraham Lincoln was a\
faggot. He was in love with General Grant. So was Jefferson Davis.\
Lincoln just freed the slaves on a bet. The Dred Scott case was framed\
by the Anti-Saloon League. Sex explains it all. The Colonel\'92s Lady and\
Judy O\'92Grady are Lesbians under their skin.\'94\
\
He stopped.\
\
\'93Want to hear some more?\'94\
\
\'93Shoot,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know any more. Tell you some more at lunch.\'94\
\
\'93Old Bill,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You bum!\'94\
\
We packed the lunch and two bottles of wine in the rucksack, and Bill\
put it on. I carried the rod-case and the landing-nets slung over my\
back. We started up the road and then went across a meadow and found a\
path that crossed the fields and went toward the woods on the slope of\
the first hill. We walked across the fields on the sandy path. The\
fields were rolling and grassy and the grass was short from the sheep\
grazing. The cattle were up in the hills. We heard their bells in the\
woods.\
\
The path crossed a stream on a foot-log. The log was surfaced off, and\
there was a sapling bent across for a rail. In the flat pool beside the\
stream tadpoles spotted the sand. We went up a steep bank and across the\
rolling fields. Looking back we saw Burguete, white houses and red\
roofs, and the white road with a truck going along it and the dust\
rising.\
\
Beyond the fields we crossed another faster-flowing stream. A sandy road\
led down to the ford and beyond into the woods. The path crossed the\
stream on another foot-log below the ford, and joined the road, and we\
went into the woods.\
\
It was a beech wood and the trees were very old. Their roots bulked\
above the ground and the branches were twisted. We walked on the road\
between the thick trunks of the old beeches and the sunlight came\
through the leaves in light patches on the grass. The trees were big,\
and the foliage was thick but it was not gloomy. There was no\
undergrowth, only the smooth grass, very green and fresh, and the big\
gray trees well spaced as though it were a park.\
\
\'93This is country,\'94 Bill said.\
\
The road went up a hill and we got into thick woods, and the road kept\
on climbing. Sometimes it dipped down but rose again steeply. All the\
time we heard the cattle in the woods. Finally, the road came out on the\
top of the hills. We were on the top of the height of land that was the\
highest part of the range of wooded hills we had seen from Burguete.\
There were wild strawberries growing on the sunny side of the ridge in a\
little clearing in the trees.\
\
Ahead the road came out of the forest and went along the shoulder of the\
ridge of hills. The hills ahead were not wooded, and there were great\
fields of yellow gorse. Way off we saw the steep bluffs, dark with trees\
and jutting with gray stone, that marked the course of the Irati River.\
\
\'93We have to follow this road along the ridge, cross these hills, go\
through the woods on the far hills, and come down to the Irati valley,\'94\
I pointed out to Bill.\
\
\'93That\'92s a hell of a hike.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s too far to go and fish and come back the same day, comfortably.\'94\
\
\'93Comfortably. That\'92s a nice word. We\'92ll have to go like hell to get\
there and back and have any fishing at all.\'94\
\
It was a long walk and the country was very fine, but we were tired when\
we came down the steep road that led out of the wooded hills into the\
valley of the Rio de la Fabrica.\
\
The road came out from the shadow of the woods into the hot sun. Ahead\
was a river-valley. Beyond the river was a steep hill. There was a field\
of buckwheat on the hill. We saw a white house under some trees on the\
hillside. It was very hot and we stopped under some trees beside a dam\
that crossed the river.\
\
Bill put the pack against one of the trees and we jointed up the rods,\
put on the reels, tied on leaders, and got ready to fish.\
\
\'93You\'92re sure this thing has trout in it?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93It\'92s full of them.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to fish a fly. You got any McGintys?\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s some in there.\'94\
\
\'93You going to fish bait?\'94\
\
\'93Yeah. I\'92m going to fish the dam here.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92ll take the fly-book, then.\'94 He tied on a fly. \'93Where\'92d I\
better go? Up or down?\'94\
\
\'93Down is the best. They\'92re plenty up above, too.\'94\
\
Bill went down the bank.\
\
\'93Take a worm can.\'94\
\
\'93No, I don\'92t want one. If they won\'92t take a fly I\'92ll just flick it\
around.\'94\
\
Bill was down below watching the stream.\
\
\'93Say,\'94 he called up against the noise of the dam. \'93How about putting the\
wine in that spring up the road?\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I shouted. Bill waved his hand and started down the stream.\
I found the two wine-bottles in the pack, and carried them up the road\
to where the water of a spring flowed out of an iron pipe. There was a\
board over the spring and I lifted it and, knocking the corks firmly\
into the bottles, lowered them down into the water. It was so cold my\
hand and wrist felt numbed. I put back the slab of wood, and hoped\
nobody would find the wine.\
\
I got my rod that was leaning against the tree, took the bait-can and\
landing-net, and walked out onto the dam. It was built to provide a head\
of water for driving logs. The gate was up, and I sat on one of the\
squared timbers and watched the smooth apron of water before the river\
tumbled into the falls. In the white water at the foot of the dam it was\
deep. As I baited up, a trout shot up out of the white water into the\
falls and was carried down. Before I could finish baiting, another trout\
jumped at the falls, making the same lovely arc and disappearing into\
the water that was thundering down. I put on a good-sized sinker and\
dropped into the white water close to the edge of the timbers of the\
dam.\
\
I did not feel the first trout strike. When I started to pull up I felt\
that I had one and brought him, fighting and bending the rod almost\
double, out of the boiling water at the foot of the falls, and swung him\
up and onto the dam. He was a good trout, and I banged his head against\
the timber so that he quivered out straight, and then slipped him into\
my bag.\
\
While I had him on, several trout had jumped at the falls. As soon as I\
baited up and dropped in again I hooked another and brought him in the\
same way. In a little while I had six. They were all about the same\
size. I laid them out, side by side, all their heads pointing the same\
way, and looked at them. They were beautifully colored and firm and hard\
from the cold water. It was a hot day, so I slit them all and shucked\
out the insides, gills and all, and tossed them over across the river. I\
took the trout ashore, washed them in the cold, smoothly heavy water\
above the dam, and then picked some ferns and packed them all in the\
bag, three trout on a layer of ferns, then another layer of fems, then\
three more trout, and then covered them with ferns. They looked nice in\
the ferns, and now the bag was bulky, and I put it in the shade of the\
tree.\
\
It was very hot on the dam, so I put my worm-can in the shade with the\
bag, and got a book out of the pack and settled down under the tree to\
read until Bill should come up for lunch.\
\
It was a little past noon and there was not much shade, but I sat\
against the trunk of two of the trees that grew together, and read. The\
book was something by A. E. W. Mason, and I was reading a wonderful\
story about a man who had been frozen in the Alps and then fallen into a\
glacier and disappeared, and his bride was going to wait twenty-four\
years exactly for his body to come out on the moraine, while her true\
love waited too, and they were still waiting when Bill came up.\
\
\'93Get any?\'94 he asked. He had his rod and his bag and his net all in one\
hand, and he was sweating. I hadn\'92t heard him come up, because of the\
noise from the dam.\
\
\'93Six. What did you get?\'94\
\
Bill sat down, opened up his bag, laid a big trout on the grass. He took\
out three more, each one a little bigger than the last, and laid them\
side by side in the shade from the tree. His face was sweaty and happy.\
\
\'93How are yours?\'94\
\
\'93Smaller.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s see them.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re packed.\'94\
\
\'93How big are they really?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re all about the size of your smallest.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re not holding out on me?\'94\
\
\'93I wish I were.\'94\
\
\'93Get them all on worms?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93You lazy bum!\'94\
\
Bill put the trout in the bag and started for the river, swinging the\
open bag. He was wet from the waist down and I knew he must have been\
wading the stream.\
\
I walked up the road and got out the two bottles of wine. They were\
cold. Moisture beaded on the bottles as I walked back to the trees. I\
spread the lunch on a newspaper, and uncorked one of the bottles and\
leaned the other against a tree. Bill came up drying his hands, his bag\
plump with ferns.\
\
\'93Let\'92s see that bottle,\'94 he said. He pulled the cork, and tipped up the\
bottle and drank. \'93Whew! That makes my eyes ache.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s try it.\'94\
\
The wine was icy cold and tasted faintly rusty.\
\
\'93That\'92s not such filthy wine,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93The cold helps it,\'94 I said.\
\
We unwrapped the little parcels of lunch.\
\
\'93Chicken.\'94\
\
\'93There\'92s hard-boiled eggs.\'94\
\
\'93Find any salt?\'94\
\
\'93First the egg,\'94 said Bill. \'93Then the chicken. Even Bryan could see\
that.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s dead. I read it in the paper yesterday.\'94\
\
\'93No. Not really?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Bryan\'92s dead.\'94\
\
Bill laid down the egg he was peeling.\
\
\'93Gentlemen,\'94 he said, and unwrapped a drumstick from a piece of\
newspaper. \'93I reverse the order. For Bryan\'92s sake. As a tribute to the\
Great Commoner. First the chicken; then the egg.\'94\
\
\'93Wonder what day God created the chicken?\'94\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 said Bill, sucking the drumstick, \'93how should we know? We should\
not question. Our stay on earth is not for long. Let us rejoice and\
believe and give thanks.\'94\
\
\'93Eat an egg.\'94\
\
Bill gestured with the drumstick in one hand and the bottle of wine in\
the other.\
\
\'93Let us rejoice in our blessings. Let us utilize the fowls of the air.\
Let us utilize the product of the vine. Will you utilize a little,\
brother?\'94\
\
\'93After you, brother.\'94\
\
Bill took a long drink.\
\
\'93Utilize a little, brother,\'94 he handed me the bottle. \'93Let us not doubt,\
brother. Let us not pry into the holy mysteries of the hen-coop with\
simian fingers. Let us accept on faith and simply say\'97I want you to\
join with me in saying\'97What shall we say, brother?\'94 He pointed the\
drumstick at me and went on. \'93Let me tell you. We will say, and I for\
one am proud to say\'97and I want you to say with me, on your knees,\
brother. Let no man be ashamed to kneel here in the great out-of-doors.\
Remember the woods were God\'92s first temples. Let us kneel and say:\
\'91Don\'92t eat that, Lady\'97that\'92s Mencken.\'92\'94\
\
\'93Here,\'94 I said. \'93Utilize a little of this.\'94\
\
We uncorked the other bottle.\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94 I said. \'93Didn\'92t you like Bryan?\'94\
\
\'93I loved Bryan,\'94 said Bill. \'93We were like brothers.\'94\
\
\'93Where did you know him?\'94\
\
\'93He and Mencken and I all went to Holy Cross together.\'94\
\
\'93And Frankie Fritsch.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lie. Frankie Fritsch went to Fordham.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93I went to Loyola with Bishop Manning.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lie,\'94 Bill said. \'93I went to Loyola with Bishop Manning myself.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re cock-eyed,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93On wine?\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s the humidity,\'94 Bill said. \'93They ought to take this damn humidity\
away.\'94\
\
\'93Have another shot.\'94\
\
\'93Is this all we\'92ve got?\'94\
\
\'93Only the two bottles.\'94\
\
\'93Do you know what you are?\'94 Bill looked at the bottle affectionately.\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You\'92re in the pay of the Anti-Saloon League.\'94\
\
\'93I went to Notre Dame with Wayne B. Wheeler.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a lie,\'94 said Bill. \'93I went to Austin Business College with Wayne\
B. Wheeler. He was class president.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93the saloon must go.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re right there, old classmate,\'94 Bill said. \'93The saloon must go, and\
I will take it with me.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re cock-eyed.\'94\
\
\'93On wine?\'94\
\
\'93On wine.\'94\
\
\'93Well, maybe I am.\'94\
\
\'93Want to take a nap?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
We lay with our heads in the shade and looked up into the trees.\
\
\'93You asleep?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Bill said. \'93I was thinking.\'94\
\
I shut my eyes. It felt good lying on the ground.\
\
\'93Say,\'94 Bill said, \'93what about this Brett business?\'94\
\
\'93What about it?\'94\
\
\'93Were you ever in love with her?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93For how long?\'94\
\
\'93Off and on for a hell of a long time.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, hell!\'94 Bill said. \'93I\'92m sorry, fella.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right,\'94 I said. \'93I don\'92t give a damn any more.\'94\
\
\'93Really?\'94\
\
\'93Really. Only I\'92d a hell of a lot rather not talk about it.\'94\
\
\'93You aren\'92t sore I asked you?\'94\
\
\'93Why the hell should I be?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to sleep,\'94 Bill said. He put a newspaper over his face.\
\
\'93Listen, Jake,\'94 he said, \'93are you really a Catholic?\'94\
\
\'93Technically.\'94\
\
\'93What does that mean?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93All right, I\'92ll go to sleep now,\'94 he said. \'93Don\'92t keep me awake by\
talking so much.\'94\
\
I went to sleep, too. When I woke up Bill was packing the rucksack. It\
was late in the afternoon and the shadow from the trees was long and\
went out over the dam. I was stiff from sleeping on the ground.\
\
\'93What did you do? Wake up?\'94 Bill asked. \'93Why didn\'92t you spend the\
night?\'94 I stretched and rubbed my eyes.\
\
\'93I had a lovely dream,\'94 Bill said. \'93I don\'92t remember what it was about,\
but it was a lovely dream.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think I dreamt.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to dream,\'94 Bill said. \'93All our biggest business men have been\
dreamers. Look at Ford. Look at President Coolidge. Look at Rockefeller.\
Look at Jo Davidson.\'94\
\
I disjointed my rod and Bill\'92s and packed them in the rod-case. I put\
the reels in the tackle-bag. Bill had packed the rucksack and we put one\
of the trout-bags in. I carried the other.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 said Bill, \'93have we got everything?\'94\
\
\'93The worms.\'94\
\
\'93Your worms. Put them in there.\'94\
\
He had the pack on his back and I put the worm-cans in one of the\
outside flap pockets.\
\
\'93You got everything now?\'94\
\
I looked around on the grass at the foot of the elm-trees.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
We started up the road into the woods. It was a long walk home to\
Burguete, and it was dark when we came down across the fields to the\
road, and along the road between the houses of the town, their windows\
lighted, to the inn.\
\
We stayed five days at Burguete and had good fishing. The nights were\
cold and the days were hot, and there was always a breeze even in the\
heat of the day. It was hot enough so that it felt good to wade in a\
cold stream, and the sun dried you when you came out and sat on the\
bank. We found a stream with a pool deep enough to swim in. In the\
evenings we played three-handed bridge with an Englishman named Harris,\
who had walked over from Saint Jean Pied de Port and was stopping at the\
inn for the fishing. He was very pleasant and went with us twice to the\
Irati River. There was no word from Robert Cohn nor from Brett and Mike.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   13\
\
\
One morning I went down to breakfast and the Englishman, Harris, was\
already at the table. He was reading the paper through spectacles. He\
looked up and smiled.\
\
\'93Good morning,\'94 he said. \'93Letter for you. I stopped at the post and they\
gave it me with mine.\'94\
\
The letter was at my place at the table, leaning against a coffee-cup.\
Harris was reading the paper again. I opened the letter. It had been\
forwarded from Pamplona. It was dated San Sebastian, Sunday:\
\
    DEAR JAKE,\
\
    We got here Friday, Brett passed out on the train, so brought\
    her here for 3 days rest with old friends of ours. We go to\
    Montoya Hotel Pamplona Tuesday, arriving at I don\'92t know what\
    hour. Will you send a note by the bus to tell us what to do to\
    rejoin you all on Wednesday. All our love and sorry to be late,\
    but Brett was really done in and will be quite all right by\
    Tues. and is practically so now. I know her so well and try to\
    look after her but it\'92s not so easy. Love to all the chaps,\
\
                                                          MICHAEL.\
\
\'93What day of the week is it?\'94 I asked Harris.\
\
\'93Wednesday, I think. Yes, quite. Wednesday. Wonderful how one loses\
track of the days up here in the mountains.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. We\'92ve been here nearly a week.\'94\
\
\'93I hope you\'92re not thinking of leaving?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. We\'92ll go in on the afternoon bus, I\'92m afraid.\'94\
\
\'93What a rotten business. I had hoped we\'92d all have another go at the\
Irati together.\'94\
\
\'93We have to go _into_ Pamplona. We\'92re meeting people there.\'94\
\
\'93What rotten luck for me. We\'92ve had a jolly time here at Burguete.\'94\
\
\'93Come on in to Pamplona. We can play some bridge there, and there\'92s\
going to be a damned fine fiesta.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to. Awfully nice of you to ask me. I\'92d best stop on here,\
though. I\'92ve not much more time to fish.\'94\
\
\'93You want those big ones in the Irati.\'94\
\
\'93I say, I do, you know. They\'92re enormous trout there.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92d like to try them once more.\'94\
\
\'93Do. Stop over another day. Be a good chap.\'94\
\
\'93We really have to get into town,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93What a pity.\'94\
\
After breakfast Bill and I were sitting warming in the sun on a bench\
out in front of the inn and talking it over. I saw a girl coming up the\
road from the centre of the town. She stopped in front of us and took a\
telegram out of the leather wallet that hung against her skirt.\
\
\'93Por ustedes?\'94\
\
I looked at it. The address was: \'93Barnes, Burguete.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. It\'92s for us.\'94\
\
She brought out a book for me to sign, and I gave her a couple of\
coppers. The telegram was in Spanish: \'93Vengo Jueves Cohn.\'94\
\
I handed it to Bill.\
\
\'93What does the word Cohn mean?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93What a lousy telegram!\'94 I said. \'93He could send ten words for the same\
price. \'91I come Thursday.\'92 That gives you a lot of dope, doesn\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93It gives you all the dope that\'92s of interest to Cohn.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92re going in, anyway,\'94 I said. \'93There\'92s no use trying to move Brett\
and Mike out here and back before the fiesta. Should we answer it?\'94\
\
\'93We might as well,\'94 said Bill. \'93There\'92s no need for us to be snooty.\'94\
\
We walked up to the post-office and asked for a telegraph blank.\
\
\'93What will we say?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93\'91Arriving to-night.\'92 That\'92s enough.\'94\
\
We paid for the message and walked back to the inn. Harris was there and\
the three of us walked up to Roncesvalles. We went through the\
monastery.\
\
\'93It\'92s a remarkable place,\'94 Harris said, when we came out. \'93But you know\
I\'92m not much on those sort of places.\'94\
\
\'93Me either,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93It\'92s a remarkable place, though,\'94 Harris said. \'93I wouldn\'92t not have\
seen it. I\'92d been intending coming up each day.\'94\
\
\'93It isn\'92t the same as fishing, though, is it?\'94 Bill asked. He liked\
Harris.\
\
\'93I say not.\'94\
\
We were standing in front of the old chapel of the monastery.\
\
\'93Isn\'92t that a pub across the way?\'94 Harris asked. \'93Or do my eyes deceive\
me?\'94\
\
\'93It has the look of a pub,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93It looks to me like a pub,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I say,\'94 said Harris, \'93let\'92s utilize it.\'94 He had taken up utilizing from\
Bill.\
\
We had a bottle of wine apiece. Harris would not let us pay. He talked\
Spanish quite well, and the innkeeper would not take our money.\
\
\'93I say. You don\'92t know what it\'92s meant to me to have you chaps up here.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve had a grand time, Harris.\'94\
\
Harris was a little tight.\
\
\'93I say. Really you don\'92t know how much it means. I\'92ve not had much fun\
since the war.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll fish together again, some time. Don\'92t you forget it, Harris.\'94\
\
\'93We must. We _have_ had such a jolly good time.\'94\
\
\'93How about another bottle around?\'94\
\
\'93Jolly good idea,\'94 said Harris.\
\
\'93This is mine,\'94 said Bill. \'93Or we don\'92t drink it.\'94\
\
\'93I wish you\'92d let me pay for it. It _does_ give me pleasure, you know.\'94\
\
\'93This is going to give me pleasure,\'94 Bill said.\
\
The innkeeper brought in the fourth bottle. We had kept the same\
glasses. Harris lifted his glass.\
\
\'93I say. You know this does utilize well.\'94\
\
Bill slapped him on the back.\
\
\'93Good old Harris.\'94\
\
\'93I say. You know my name isn\'92t really Harris. It\'92s Wilson-Harris. All\
one name. With a hyphen, you know.\'94\
\
\'93Good old Wilson-Harris,\'94 Bill said. \'93We call you Harris because we\'92re\
so fond of you.\'94\
\
\'93I say, Barnes. You don\'92t know what this all means to me.\'94\
\
\'93Come on and utilize another glass,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Barnes. Really, Barnes, you can\'92t know. That\'92s all.\'94\
\
\'93Drink up, Harris.\'94\
\
We walked back down the road from Roncesvalles with Harris between us.\
We had lunch at the inn and Harris went with us to the bus. He gave us\
his card, with his address in London and his club and his business\
address, and as we got on the bus he handed us each an envelope. I\
opened mine and there were a dozen flies in it. Harris had tied them\
himself. He tied all his own flies.\
\
\'93I say, Harris\'97\'94 I began.\
\
\'93No, no!\'94 he said. He was climbing down from the bus. \'93They\'92re not\
first-rate flies at all. I only thought if you fished them some time it\
might remind you of what a good time we had.\'94\
\
The bus started. Harris stood in front of the post-office. He waved. As\
we started along the road he turned and walked back toward the inn.\
\
\'93Say, wasn\'92t that Harris nice?\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93I think he really did have a good time.\'94\
\
\'93Harris? You bet he did.\'94\
\
\'93I wish he\'92d come into Pamplona.\'94\
\
\'93He wanted to fish.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. You couldn\'92t tell how English would mix with each other, anyway.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose not.\'94\
\
We got into Pamplona late in the afternoon and the bus stopped in front\
of the Hotel Montoya. Out in the plaza they were stringing\
electric-light wires to light the plaza for the fiesta. A few kids came\
up when the bus stopped, and a customs officer for the town made all the\
people getting down from the bus open their bundles on the sidewalk. We\
went into the hotel and on the stairs I met Montoya. He shook hands with\
us, smiling in his embarrassed way.\
\
\'93Your friends are here,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Mr. Campbell?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Mr. Cohn and Mr. Campbell and Lady Ashley.\'94\
\
He smiled as though there were something I would hear about.\
\
\'93When did they get in?\'94\
\
\'93Yesterday. I\'92ve saved you the rooms you had.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s fine. Did you give Mr. Campbell the room on the plaza?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. All the rooms we looked at.\'94\
\
\'93Where are our friends now?\'94\
\
\'93I think they went to the pelota.\'94\
\
\'93And how about the bulls?\'94\
\
Montoya smiled. \'93To-night,\'94 he said. \'93To-night at seven o\'92clock they\
bring in the Villar bulls, and to-morrow come the Miuras. Do you all go\
down?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. They\'92ve never seen a desencajonada.\'94\
\
Montoya put his hand on my shoulder.\
\
\'93I\'92ll see you there.\'94\
\
He smiled again. He always smiled as though bull-fighting were a very\
special secret between the two of us; a rather shocking but really very\
deep secret that we knew about. He always smiled as though there were\
something lewd about the secret to outsiders, but that it was something\
that we understood. It would not do to expose it to people who would not\
understand.\
\
\'93Your friend, is he aficionado, too?\'94 Montoya smiled at Bill.\
\
\'93Yes. He came all the way from New York to see the San Fermines.\'94\
\
\'93Yes?\'94 Montoya politely disbelieved. \'93But he\'92s not aficionado like you.\'94\
\
He put his hand on my shoulder again embarrassedly.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s a real aficionado.\'94\
\
\'93But he\'92s not aficionado like you are.\'94\
\
Aficion means passion. An aficionado is one who is passionate about the\
bull-fights. All the good bull-fighters stayed at Montoya\'92s hotel; that\
is, those with aficion stayed there. The commercial bull-fighters stayed\
once, perhaps, and then did not come back. The good ones came each year.\
In Montoya\'92s room were their photographs. The photographs were dedicated\
to Juanito Montoya or to his sister. The photographs of bull-fighters\
Montoya had really believed in were framed. Photographs of bull-fighters\
who had been without aficion Montoya kept in a drawer of his desk. They\
often had the most flattering inscriptions. But they did not mean\
anything. One day Montoya took them all out and dropped them in the\
waste-basket. He did not want them around.\
\
We often talked about bulls and bull-fighters. I had stopped at the\
Montoya for several years. We never talked for very long at a time. It\
was simply the pleasure of discovering what we each felt. Men would come\
in from distant towns and before they left Pamplona stop and talk for a\
few minutes with Montoya about bulls. These men were aficionados. Those\
who were aficionados could always get rooms even when the hotel was\
full. Montoya introduced me to some of them. They were always very\
polite at first, and it amused them very much that I should be an\
American. Somehow it was taken for granted that an American could not\
have aficion. He might simulate it or confuse it with excitement, but he\
could not really have it. When they saw that I had aficion, and there\
was no password, no set questions that could bring it out, rather it was\
a sort of oral spiritual examination with the questions always a little\
on the defensive and never apparent, there was this same embarrassed\
putting the hand on the shoulder, or a \'93Buen hombre.\'94 But nearly always\
there was the actual touching. It seemed as though they wanted to touch\
you to make it certain.\
\
Montoya could forgive anything of a bull-fighter who had aficion. He\
could forgive attacks of nerves, panic, bad unexplainable actions, all\
sorts of lapses. For one who had aficion he could forgive anything. At\
once he forgave me all my friends. Without his ever saying anything they\
were simply a little something shameful between us, like the spilling\
open of the horses in bull-fighting.\
\
Bill had gone up-stairs as we came in, and I found him washing and\
changing in his room.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he said, \'93talk a lot of Spanish?\'94\
\
\'93He was telling me about the bulls coming in to-night.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s find the gang and go down.\'94\
\
\'93All right. They\'92ll probably be at the caf\'e9.\'94\
\
\'93Have you got tickets?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. I got them for all the unloadings.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s it like?\'94 He was pulling his cheek before the glass, looking to\
see if there were unshaved patches under the line of the jaw.\
\
\'93It\'92s pretty good,\'94 I said. \'93They let the bulls out of the cages one at\
a time, and they have steers in the corral to receive them and keep them\
from fighting, and the bulls tear in at the steers and the steers run\
around like old maids trying to quiet them down.\'94\
\
\'93Do they ever gore the steers?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. Sometimes they go right after them and kill them.\'94\
\
\'93Can\'92t the steers do anything?\'94\
\
\'93No. They\'92re trying to make friends.\'94\
\
\'93What do they have them in for?\'94\
\
\'93To quiet down the bulls and keep them from breaking horns against the\
stone walls, or goring each other.\'94\
\
\'93Must be swell being a steer.\'94\
\
We went down the stairs and out of the door and walked across the square\
toward the Caf\'e9 Iru\'f1a. There were two lonely looking ticket-houses\
standing in the square. Their windows, marked SOL, SOL Y SOMBRA, and\
SOMBRA, were shut. They would not open until the day before the fiesta.\
\
Across the square the white wicker tables and chairs of the Iru\'f1a\
extended out beyond the Arcade to the edge of the street. I looked for\
Brett and Mike at the tables. There they were. Brett and Mike and Robert\
Cohn. Brett was wearing a Basque beret. So was Mike. Robert Cohn was\
bare-headed and wearing his spectacles. Brett saw us coming and waved.\
Her eyes crinkled up as we came up to the table.\
\
\'93Hello, you chaps!\'94 she called.\
\
Brett was happy. Mike had a way of getting an intensity of feeling into\
shaking hands. Robert Cohn shook hands because we were back.\
\
\'93Where the hell have you been?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93I brought them up here,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93What rot,\'94 Brett said. \'93We\'92d have gotten here earlier if you hadn\'92t\
come.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92d never have gotten here.\'94\
\
\'93What rot! You chaps are brown. Look at Bill.\'94\
\
\'93Did you get good fishing?\'94 Mike asked. \'93We wanted to join you.\'94\
\
\'93It wasn\'92t bad. We missed you.\'94\
\
\'93I wanted to come,\'94 Cohn said, \'93but I thought I ought to bring them.\'94\
\
\'93You bring us. What rot.\'94\
\
\'93Was it really good?\'94 Mike asked. \'93Did you take many?\'94\
\
\'93Some days we took a dozen apiece. There was an Englishman up there.\'94\
\
\'93Named Harris,\'94 Bill said. \'93Ever know him, Mike? He was in the war,\
too.\'94\
\
\'93Fortunate fellow,\'94 Mike said. \'93What times we had. How I wish those dear\
days were back.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be an ass.\'94\
\
\'93Were you in the war, Mike?\'94 Cohn asked.\
\
\'93Was I not.\'94\
\
\'93He was a very distinguished soldier,\'94 Brett said. \'93Tell them about the\
time your horse bolted down Piccadilly.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll not. I\'92ve told that four times.\'94\
\
\'93You never told me,\'94 Robert Cohn said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll not tell that story. It reflects discredit on me.\'94\
\
\'93Tell them about your medals.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll not. That story reflects great discredit on me.\'94\
\
\'93What story\'92s that?\'94\
\
\'93Brett will tell you. She tells all the stories that reflect discredit\
on me.\'94\
\
\'93Go on. Tell it, Brett.\'94\
\
\'93Should I?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell it myself.\'94\
\
\'93What medals have you got, Mike?\'94\
\
\'93I haven\'92t got any medals.\'94\
\
\'93You must have some.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose I\'92ve the usual medals. But I never sent in for them. One time\
there was this wopping big dinner and the Prince of Wales was to be\
there, and the cards said medals will be worn. So naturally I had no\
medals, and I stopped at my tailor\'92s and he was impressed by the\
invitation, and I thought that\'92s a good piece of business, and I said to\
him: \'91You\'92ve got to fix me up with some medals.\'92 He said: \'91What medals,\
sir?\'92 And I said: \'91Oh, any medals. Just give me a few medals.\'92 So he\
said: \'91What medals _have_ you, sir?\'92 And I said: \'91How should I know?\'92\
Did he think I spent all my time reading the bloody gazette? \'91Just give\
me a good lot. Pick them out yourself.\'92 So he got me some medals, you\
know, miniature medals, and handed me the box, and I put it in my pocket\
and forgot it. Well, I went to the dinner, and it was the night they\'92d\
shot Henry Wilson, so the Prince didn\'92t come and the King didn\'92t come,\
and no one wore any medals, and all these coves were busy taking off\
their medals, and I had mine in my pocket.\'94\
\
He stopped for us to laugh.\
\
\'93Is that all?\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all. Perhaps I didn\'92t tell it right.\'94\
\
\'93You didn\'92t,\'94 said Brett. \'93But no matter.\'94\
\
We were all laughing.\
\
\'93Ah, yes,\'94 said Mike. \'93I know now. It was a damn dull dinner, and I\
couldn\'92t stick it, so I left. Later on in the evening I found the box in\
my pocket. What\'92s this? I said. Medals? Bloody military medals? So I cut\
them all off their backing\'97you know, they put them on a strip\'97and gave\
them all around. Gave one to each girl. Form of souvenir. They thought I\
was hell\'92s own shakes of a soldier. Give away medals in a night club.\
Dashing fellow.\'94\
\
\'93Tell the rest,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you think that was funny?\'94 Mike asked. We were all laughing. \'93It\
was. I swear it was. Any rate, my tailor wrote me and wanted the medals\
back. Sent a man around. Kept on writing for months. Seems some chap had\
left them to be cleaned. Frightfully military cove. Set hell\'92s own store\
by them.\'94 Mike paused. \'93Rotten luck for the tailor,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93You don\'92t mean it,\'94 Bill said. \'93I should think it would have been grand\
for the tailor.\'94\
\
\'93Frightfully good tailor. Never believe it to see me now,\'94 Mike said. \'93I\
used to pay him a hundred pounds a year just to keep him quiet. So he\
wouldn\'92t send me any bills. Frightful blow to him when I went bankrupt.\
It was right after the medals. Gave his letters rather a bitter tone.\'94\
\
\'93How did you go bankrupt?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93Two ways,\'94 Mike said. \'93Gradually and then suddenly.\'94\
\
\'93What brought it on?\'94\
\
\'93Friends,\'94 said Mike. \'93I had a lot of friends. False friends. Then I had\
creditors, too. Probably had more creditors than anybody in England.\'94\
\
\'93Tell them about in the court,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93I don\'92t remember,\'94 Mike said. \'93I was just a little tight.\'94\
\
\'93Tight!\'94 Brett exclaimed. \'93You were blind!\'94\
\
\'93Extraordinary thing,\'94 Mike said. \'93Met my former partner the other day.\
Offered to buy me a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Tell them about your learned counsel,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93I will not,\'94 Mike said. \'93My learned counsel was blind, too. I say this\
is a gloomy subject. Are we going down and see these bulls unloaded or\
not?\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go down.\'94\
\
We called the waiter, paid, and started to walk through the town. I\
started off walking with Brett, but Robert Cohn came up and joined her\
on the other side. The three of us walked along, past the Ayuntamiento\
with the banners hung from the balcony, down past the market and down\
past the steep street that led to the bridge across the Arga. There were\
many people walking to go and see the bulls, and carriages drove down\
the hill and across the bridge, the drivers, the horses, and the whips\
rising above the walking people in the street. Across the bridge we\
turned up a road to the corrals. We passed a wine-shop with a sign in\
the window: Good Wine 30 Centimes A Liter.\
\
\'93That\'92s where we\'92ll go when funds get low,\'94 Brett said.\
\
The woman standing in the door of the wine-shop looked at us as we\
passed. She called to some one in the house and three girls came to the\
window and stared. They were staring at Brett.\
\
At the gate of the corrals two men took tickets from the people that\
went in. We went in through the gate. There were trees inside and a low,\
stone house. At the far end was the stone wall of the corrals, with\
apertures in the stone that were like loopholes running all along the\
face of each corral. A ladder led up to the top of the wall, and people\
were climbing up the ladder and spreading down to stand on the walls\
that separated the two corrals. As we came up the ladder, walking across\
the grass under the trees, we passed the big, gray painted cages with\
the bulls in them. There was one bull in each travelling-box. They had\
come by train from a bull-breeding ranch in Castile, and had been\
unloaded off flat-cars at the station and brought up here to be let out\
of their cages into the corrals. Each cage was stencilled with the name\
and the brand of the bull-breeder.\
\
We climbed up and found a place on the wall looking down into the\
corral. The stone walls were whitewashed, and there was straw on the\
ground and wooden feed-boxes and water-troughs set against the wall.\
\
\'93Look up there,\'94 I said.\
\
Beyond the river rose the plateau of the town. All along the old walls\
and ramparts people were standing. The three lines of fortifications\
made three black lines of people. Above the walls there were heads in\
the windows of the houses. At the far end of the plateau boys had\
climbed into the trees.\
\
\'93They must think something is going to happen,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93They want to see the bulls.\'94\
\
Mike and Bill were on the other wall across the pit of the corral. They\
waved to us. People who had come late were standing behind us, pressing\
against us when other people crowded them.\
\
\'93Why don\'92t they start?\'94 Robert Cohn asked.\
\
A single mule was hitched to one of the cages and dragged it up against\
the gate in the corral wall. The men shoved and lifted it with crowbars\
into position against the gate. Men were standing on the wall ready to\
pull up the gate of the corral and then the gate of the cage. At the\
other end of the corral a gate opened and two steers came in, swaying\
their heads and trotting, their lean flanks swinging. They stood\
together at the far end, their heads toward the gate where the bull\
would enter.\
\
\'93They don\'92t look happy,\'94 Brett said.\
\
The men on top of the wall leaned back and pulled up the door of the\
corral. Then they pulled up the door of the cage.\
\
I leaned way over the wall and tried to see into the cage. It was dark.\
Some one rapped on the cage with an iron bar. Inside something seemed to\
explode. The bull, striking into the wood from side to side with his\
horns, made a great noise. Then I saw a dark muzzle and the shadow of\
horns, and then, with a clattering on the wood in the hollow box, the\
bull charged and came out into the corral, skidding with his forefeet in\
the straw as he stopped, his head up, the great hump of muscle on his\
neck swollen tight, his body muscles quivering as he looked up at the\
crowd on the stone walls. The two steers backed away against the wall,\
their heads sunken, their eyes watching the bull.\
\
The bull saw them and charged. A man shouted from behind one of the\
boxes and slapped his hat against the planks, and the bull, before he\
reached the steer, turned, gathered himself and charged where the man\
had been, trying to reach him behind the planks with a half-dozen quick,\
searching drives with the right horn.\
\
\'93My God, isn\'92t he beautiful?\'94 Brett said. We were looking right down on\
him.\
\
\'93Look how he knows how to use his horns,\'94 I said. \'93He\'92s got a left and a\
right just like a boxer.\'94\
\
\'93Not really?\'94\
\
\'93You watch.\'94\
\
\'93It goes too fast.\'94\
\
\'93Wait. There\'92ll be another one in a minute.\'94\
\
They had backed up another cage into the entrance. In the far corner a\
man, from behind one of the plank shelters, attracted the bull, and\
while the bull was facing away the gate was pulled up and a second bull\
came out into the corral.\
\
He charged straight for the steers and two men ran out from behind the\
planks and shouted, to turn him. He did not change his direction and the\
men shouted: \'93Hah! Hah! Toro!\'94 and waved their arms; the two steers\
turned sideways to take the shock, and the bull drove into one of the\
steers.\
\
\'93Don\'92t look,\'94 I said to Brett. She was watching, fascinated.\
\
\'93Fine,\'94 I said. \'93If it doesn\'92t buck you.\'94\
\
\'93I saw it,\'94 she said. \'93I saw him shift from his left to his right horn.\'94\
\
\'93Damn good!\'94\
\
The steer was down now, his neck stretched out, his head twisted, he lay\
the way he had fallen. Suddenly the bull left off and made for the other\
steer which had been standing at the far end, his head swinging,\
watching it all. The steer ran awkwardly and the bull caught him, hooked\
him lightly in the flank, and then turned away and looked up at the\
crowd on the walls, his crest of muscle rising. The steer came up to him\
and made as though to nose at him and the bull hooked perfunctorily. The\
next time he nosed at the steer and then the two of them trotted over to\
the other bull.\
\
When the next bull came out, all three, the two bulls and the steer,\
stood together, their heads side by side, their horns against the\
newcomer. In a few minutes the steer picked the new bull up, quieted him\
down, and made him one of the herd. When the last two bulls had been\
unloaded the herd were all together.\
\
The steer who had been gored had gotten to his feet and stood against\
the stone wall. None of the bulls came near him, and he did not attempt\
to join the herd.\
\
We climbed down from the wall with the crowd, and had a last look at the\
bulls through the loopholes in the wall of the corral. They were all\
quiet now, their heads down. We got a carriage outside and rode up to\
the caf\'e9. Mike and Bill came in half an hour later. They had stopped on\
the way for several drinks.\
\
We were sitting in the caf\'e9.\
\
\'93That\'92s an extraordinary business,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Will those last ones fight as well as the first?\'94 Robert Cohn asked.\
\'93They seemed to quiet down awfully fast.\'94\
\
\'93They all know each other,\'94 I said. \'93They\'92re only dangerous when they\'92re\
alone, or only two or three of them together.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean, dangerous?\'94 Bill said. \'93They all looked dangerous to\
me.\'94\
\
\'93They only want to kill when they\'92re alone. Of course, if you went in\
there you\'92d probably detach one of them from the herd, and he\'92d be\
dangerous.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s too complicated,\'94 Bill said. \'93Don\'92t you ever detach me from the\
herd, Mike.\'94\
\
\'93I say,\'94 Mike said, \'93they _were_ fine bulls, weren\'92t they? Did you see\
their horns?\'94\
\
\'93Did I not,\'94 said Brett. \'93I had no idea what they were like.\'94\
\
\'93Did you see the one hit that steer?\'94 Mike asked. \'93That was\
extraordinary.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s no life being a steer,\'94 Robert Cohn said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you think so?\'94 Mike said. \'93I would have thought you\'92d loved being\
a steer, Robert.\'94\
\
\'93What do you mean, Mike?\'94\
\
\'93They lead such a quiet life. They never say anything and they\'92re always\
hanging about so.\'94\
\
We were embarrassed. Bill laughed. Robert Cohn was angry. Mike went on\
talking.\
\
\'93I should think you\'92d love it. You\'92d never have to say a word. Come on,\
Robert. Do say something. Don\'92t just sit there.\'94\
\
\'93I said something, Mike. Don\'92t you remember? About the steers.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, say something more. Say something funny. Can\'92t you see we\'92re all\
having a good time here?\'94\
\
\'93Come off it, Michael. You\'92re drunk,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93I\'92m not drunk. I\'92m quite serious. _Is_ Robert Cohn going to follow\
Brett around like a steer all the time?\'94\
\
\'93Shut up, Michael. Try and show a little breeding.\'94\
\
\'93Breeding be damned. Who has any breeding, anyway, except the bulls?\
Aren\'92t the bulls lovely? Don\'92t you like them, Bill? Why don\'92t you say\
something, Robert? Don\'92t sit there looking like a bloody funeral. What\
if Brett did sleep with you? She\'92s slept with lots of better people than\
you.\'94\
\
\'93Shut up,\'94 Cohn said. He stood up. \'93Shut up, Mike.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, don\'92t stand up and act as though you were going to hit me. That\
won\'92t make any difference to me. Tell me, Robert. Why do you follow\
Brett around like a poor bloody steer? Don\'92t you know you\'92re not wanted?\
I know when I\'92m not wanted. Why don\'92t you know when you\'92re not wanted?\
You came down to San Sebastian where you weren\'92t wanted, and followed\
Brett around like a bloody steer. Do you think that\'92s right?\'94\
\
\'93Shut up. You\'92re drunk.\'94\
\
\'93Perhaps I am drunk. Why aren\'92t you drunk? Why don\'92t you ever get drunk,\
Robert? You know you didn\'92t have a good time at San Sebastian because\
none of our friends would invite you on any of the parties. You can\'92t\
blame them hardly. Can you? I asked them to. They wouldn\'92t do it. You\
can\'92t blame them, now. Can you? Now, answer me. Can you blame them?\'94\
\
\'93Go to hell, Mike.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t blame them. Can you blame them? Why do you follow Brett around?\
Haven\'92t you any manners? How do you think it makes _me_ feel?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re a splendid one to talk about manners,\'94 Brett said. \'93You\'92ve such\
lovely manners.\'94\
\
\'93Come on, Robert,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93What do you follow her around for?\'94\
\
Bill stood up and took hold of Cohn.\
\
\'93Don\'92t go,\'94 Mike said. \'93Robert Cohn\'92s going to buy a drink.\'94\
\
Bill went off with Cohn. Cohn\'92s face was sallow. Mike went on talking. I\
sat and listened for a while. Brett looked disgusted.\
\
\'93I say, Michael, you might not be such a bloody ass,\'94 she interrupted.\
\'93I\'92m not saying he\'92s not right, you know.\'94 She turned to me.\
\
The emotion left Mike\'92s voice. We were all friends together.\
\
\'93I\'92m not so damn drunk as I sounded,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93I know you\'92re not,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93We\'92re none of us sober,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I didn\'92t say anything I didn\'92t mean.\'94\
\
\'93But you put it so badly,\'94 Brett laughed.\
\
\'93He was an ass, though. He came down to San Sebastian where he damn well\
wasn\'92t wanted. He hung around Brett and just _looked_ at her. It made me\
damned well sick.\'94\
\
\'93He did behave very badly,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Mark you. Brett\'92s had affairs with men before. She tells me all about\
everything. She gave me this chap Cohn\'92s letters to read. I wouldn\'92t\
read them.\'94\
\
\'93Damned noble of you.\'94\
\
\'93No, listen, Jake. Brett\'92s gone off with men. But they weren\'92t ever\
Jews, and they didn\'92t come and hang about afterward.\'94\
\
\'93Damned good chaps,\'94 Brett said. \'93It\'92s all rot to talk about it. Michael\
and I understand each other.\'94\
\
\'93She gave me Robert Cohn\'92s letters. I wouldn\'92t read them.\'94\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t read any letters, darling. You wouldn\'92t read mine.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t read letters,\'94 Mike said. \'93Funny, isn\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t read anything.\'94\
\
\'93No. You\'92re wrong there. I read quite a bit. I read when I\'92m at home.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll be writing next,\'94 Brett said. \'93Come on, Michael. Do buck up.\
You\'92ve got to go through with this thing now. He\'92s here. Don\'92t spoil the\
fiesta.\'94\
\
\'93Well, let him behave, then.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92ll behave. I\'92ll tell him.\'94\
\
\'93You tell him, Jake. Tell him either he must behave or get out.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said, \'93it would be nice for me to tell him.\'94\
\
\'93Look, Brett. Tell Jake what Robert calls you. That is perfect, you\
know.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, no. I can\'92t.\'94\
\
\'93Go on. We\'92re all friends. Aren\'92t we all friends, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t tell him. It\'92s too ridiculous.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll tell him.\'94\
\
\'93You won\'92t, Michael. Don\'92t be an ass.\'94\
\
\'93He calls her Circe,\'94 Mike said. \'93He claims she turns men into swine.\
Damn good. I wish I were one of these literary chaps.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92d be good, you know,\'94 Brett said. \'93He writes a good letter.\'94\
\
\'93I know,\'94 I said. \'93He wrote me from San Sebastian.\'94\
\
\'93That was nothing,\'94 Brett said. \'93He can write a damned amusing letter.\'94\
\
\'93She made me write that. She was supposed to be ill.\'94\
\
\'93I damned well was, too.\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 I said, \'93we must go in and eat.\'94\
\
\'93How should I meet Cohn?\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93Just act as though nothing had happened.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s quite all right with me,\'94 Mike said. \'93I\'92m not embarrassed.\'94\
\
\'93If he says anything, just say you were tight.\'94\
\
\'93Quite. And the funny thing is I think I was tight.\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 Brett said. \'93Are these poisonous things paid for? I must\
bathe before dinner.\'94\
\
We walked across the square. It was dark and all around the square were\
the lights from the caf\'e9s under the arcades. We walked across the gravel\
under the trees to the hotel.\
\
They went up-stairs and I stopped to speak with Montoya.\
\
\'93Well, how did you like the bulls?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93Good. They were nice bulls.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re all right\'94\'97Montoya shook his head\'97\'93but they\'92re not too good.\'94\
\
\'93What didn\'92t you like about them?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. They just didn\'92t give me the feeling that they were so\
good.\'94\
\
\'93I know what you mean.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re all right.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. They\'92re all right.\'94\
\
\'93How did your friends like them?\'94\
\
\'93Fine.\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 Montoya said.\
\
I went up-stairs. Bill was in his room standing on the balcony looking\
out at the square. I stood beside him.\
\
\'93Where\'92s Cohn?\'94\
\
\'93Up-stairs in his room.\'94\
\
\'93How does he feel?\'94\
\
\'93Like hell, naturally. Mike was awful. He\'92s terrible when he\'92s tight.\'94\
\
\'93He wasn\'92t so tight.\'94\
\
\'93The hell he wasn\'92t. I know what we had before we came to the caf\'e9.\'94\
\
\'93He sobered up afterward.\'94\
\
\'93Good. He was terrible. I don\'92t like Cohn, God knows, and I think it was\
a silly trick for him to go down to San Sebastian, but nobody has any\
business to talk like Mike.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92d you like the bulls?\'94\
\
\'93Grand. It\'92s grand the way they bring them out.\'94\
\
\'93To-morrow come the Miuras.\'94\
\
\'93When does the fiesta start?\'94\
\
\'93Day after to-morrow.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ve got to keep Mike from getting so tight. That kind of stuff is\
terrible.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92d better get cleaned up for supper.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. That will be a pleasant meal.\'94\
\
\'93Won\'92t it?\'94\
\
As a matter of fact, supper was a pleasant meal. Brett wore a black,\
sleeveless evening dress. She looked quite beautiful. Mike acted as\
though nothing had happened. I had to go up and bring Robert Cohn down.\
He was reserved and formal, and his face was still taut and sallow, but\
he cheered up finally. He could not stop looking at Brett. It seemed to\
make him happy. It must have been pleasant for him to see her looking so\
lovely, and know he had been away with her and that every one knew it.\
They could not take that away from him. Bill was very funny. So was\
Michael. They were good together.\
\
It was like certain dinners I remember from the war. There was much\
wine, an ignored tension, and a feeling of things coming that you could\
not prevent happening. Under the wine I lost the disgusted feeling and\
was happy. It seemed they were all such nice people.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   14\
\
\
I do not know what time I got to bed. I remember undressing, putting on\
a bathrobe, and standing out on the balcony. I knew I was quite drunk,\
and when I came in I put on the light over the head of the bed and\
started to read. I was reading a book by Turgenieff. Probably I read the\
same two pages over several times. It was one of the stories in \'93A\
Sportsman\'92s Sketches.\'94 I had read it before, but it seemed quite new.\
The country became very clear and the feeling of pressure in my head\
seemed to loosen. I was very drunk and I did not want to shut my eyes\
because the room would go round and round. If I kept on reading that\
feeling would pass.\
\
I heard Brett and Robert Cohn come up the stairs. Cohn said good night\
outside the door and went on up to his room. I heard Brett go into the\
room next door. Mike was already in bed. He had come in with me an hour\
before. He woke as she came in, and they talked together. I heard them\
laugh. I turned off the light and tried to go to sleep. It was not\
necessary to read any more. I could shut my eyes without getting the\
wheeling sensation. But I could not sleep. There is no reason why\
because it is dark you should look at things differently from when it is\
light. The hell there isn\'92t!\
\
I figured that all out once, and for six months I never slept with the\
electric light off. That was another bright idea. To hell with women,\
anyway. To hell with you, Brett Ashley.\
\
Women made such swell friends. Awfully swell. In the first place, you\
had to be in love with a woman to have a basis of friendship. I had been\
having Brett for a friend. I had not been thinking about her side of it.\
I had been getting something for nothing. That only delayed the\
presentation of the bill. The bill always came. That was one of the\
swell things you could count on.\
\
I thought I had paid for everything. Not like the woman pays and pays\
and pays. No idea of retribution or punishment. Just exchange of values.\
You gave up something and got something else. Or you worked for\
something. You paid some way for everything that was any good. I paid my\
way into enough things that I liked, so that I had a good time. Either\
you paid by learning about them, or by experience, or by taking chances,\
or by money. Enjoying living was learning to get your money\'92s worth and\
knowing when you had it. You could get your money\'92s worth. The world was\
a good place to buy in. It seemed like a fine philosophy. In five years,\
I thought, it will seem just as silly as all the other fine philosophies\
I\'92ve had.\
\
Perhaps that wasn\'92t true, though. Perhaps as you went along you did\
learn something. I did not care what it was all about. All I wanted to\
know was how to live in it. Maybe if you found out how to live in it you\
learned from that what it was all about.\
\
I wished Mike would not behave so terribly to Cohn, though. Mike was a\
bad drunk. Brett was a good drunk. Bill was a good drunk. Cohn was never\
drunk. Mike was unpleasant after he passed a certain point. I liked to\
see him hurt Cohn. I wished he would not do it, though, because\
afterward it made me disgusted at myself. That was morality; things that\
made you disgusted afterward. No, that must be immorality. That was a\
large statement. What a lot of bilge I could think up at night. What\
rot, I could hear Brett say it. What rot! When you were with English you\
got into the habit of using English expressions in your thinking. The\
English spoken language\'97the upper classes, anyway\'97must have fewer\
words than the Eskimo. Of course I didn\'92t know anything about the\
Eskimo. Maybe the Eskimo was a fine language. Say the Cherokee. I didn\'92t\
know anything about the Cherokee, either. The English talked with\
inflected phrases. One phrase to mean everything. I liked them, though.\
I liked the way they talked. Take Harris. Still Harris was not the upper\
classes.\
\
I turned on the light again and read. I read the Turgenieff. I knew that\
now, reading it in the oversensitized state of my mind after much too\
much brandy, I would remember it somewhere, and afterward it would seem\
as though it had really happened to me. I would always have it. That was\
another good thing you paid for and then had. Some time along toward\
daylight I went to sleep.\
\
                 *        *        *        *        *\
\
The next two days in Pamplona were quiet, and there were no more rows.\
The town was getting ready for the fiesta. Workmen put up the gate-posts\
that were to shut off the side streets when the bulls were released from\
the corrals and came running through the streets in the morning on their\
way to the ring. The workmen dug holes and fitted in the timbers, each\
timber numbered for its regular place. Out on the plateau beyond the\
town employees of the bull-ring exercised picador horses, galloping them\
stiff-legged on the hard, sun-baked fields behind the bull-ring. The big\
gate of the bull-ring was open, and inside the amphitheatre was being\
swept. The ring was rolled and sprinkled, and carpenters replaced\
weakened or cracked planks in the barrera. Standing at the edge of the\
smooth rolled sand you could look up in the empty stands and see old\
women sweeping out the boxes.\
\
Outside, the fence that led from the last street of the town to the\
entrance of the bull-ring was already in place and made a long pen; the\
crowd would come running down with the bulls behind them on the morning\
of the day of the first bull-fight. Out across the plain, where the\
horse and cattle fair would be, some gypsies had camped under the trees.\
The wine and aguardiente sellers were putting up their booths. One booth\
advertised =ANIS DEL TORO=. The cloth sign hung against the\
planks in the hot sun. In the big square that was the centre of the town\
there was no change yet. We sat in the white wicker chairs on the\
terrasse of the caf\'e9 and watched the motor-buses come in and unload\
peasants from the country coming in to the market, and we watched the\
buses fill up and start out with peasants sitting with their saddle-bags\
full of the things they had bought in the town. The tall gray\
motor-buses were the only life of the square except for the pigeons and\
the man with a hose who sprinkled the gravelled square and watered the\
streets.\
\
In the evening was the paseo. For an hour after dinner every one, all\
the good-looking girls, the officers from the garrison, all the\
fashionable people of the town, walked in the street on one side of the\
square while the caf\'e9 tables filled with the regular after-dinner crowd.\
\
During the morning I usually sat in the caf\'e9 and read the Madrid papers\
and then walked in the town or out into the country. Sometimes Bill went\
along. Sometimes he wrote in his room. Robert Cohn spent the mornings\
studying Spanish or trying to get a shave at the barber-shop. Brett and\
Mike never got up until noon. We all had a vermouth at the caf\'e9. It was\
a quiet life and no one was drunk. I went to church a couple of times,\
once with Brett. She said she wanted to hear me go to confession, but I\
told her that not only was it impossible but it was not as interesting\
as it sounded, and, besides, it would be in a language she did not know.\
We met Cohn as we came out of church, and although it was obvious he had\
followed us, yet he was very pleasant and nice, and we all three went\
for a walk out to the gypsy camp, and Brett had her fortune told.\
\
It was a good morning, there were high white clouds above the mountains.\
It had rained a little in the night and it was fresh and cool on the\
plateau, and there was a wonderful view. We all felt good and we felt\
healthy, and I felt quite friendly to Cohn. You could not be upset about\
anything on a day like that.\
\
That was the last day before the fiesta.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   15\
\
\
At noon of Sunday, the 6th of July, the fiesta exploded. There is no\
other way to describe it. People had been coming in all day from the\
country, but they were assimilated in the town and you did not notice\
them. The square was as quiet in the hot sun as on any other day. The\
peasants were in the outlying wine-shops. There they were drinking,\
getting ready for the fiesta. They had come in so recently from the\
plains and the hills that it was necessary that they make their shifting\
in values gradually. They could not start in paying caf\'e9 prices. They\
got their money\'92s worth in the wine-shops. Money still had a definite\
value in hours worked and bushels of grain sold. Late in the fiesta it\
would not matter what they paid, nor where they bought.\
\
Now on the day of the starting of the fiesta of San Fermin they had been\
in the wine-shops of the narrow streets of the town since early morning.\
Going down the streets in the morning on the way to mass in the\
cathedral, I heard them singing through the open doors of the shops.\
They were warming up. There were many people at the eleven o\'92clock mass.\
San Fermin is also a religious festival.\
\
I walked down the hill from the cathedral and up the street to the caf\'e9\
on the square. It was a little before noon. Robert Cohn and Bill were\
sitting at one of the tables. The marble-topped tables and the white\
wicker chairs were gone. They were replaced by cast-iron tables and\
severe folding chairs. The caf\'e9 was like a battleship stripped for\
action. To-day the waiters did not leave you alone all morning to read\
without asking if you wanted to order something. A waiter came up as\
soon as I sat down.\
\
\'93What are you drinking?\'94 I asked Bill and Robert.\
\
\'93Sherry,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93Jerez,\'94 I said to the waiter.\
\
Before the waiter brought the sherry the rocket that announced the\
fiesta went up in the square. It burst and there was a gray ball of\
smoke high up above the Theatre Gayarre, across on the other side of the\
plaza. The ball of smoke hung in the sky like a shrapnel burst, and as I\
watched, another rocket came up to it, trickling smoke in the bright\
sunlight. I saw the bright flash as it burst and another little cloud of\
smoke appeared. By the time the second rocket had burst there were so\
many people in the arcade, that had been empty a minute before, that the\
waiter, holding the bottle high up over his head, could hardly get\
through the crowd to our table. People were coming into the square from\
all sides, and down the street we heard the pipes and the fifes and the\
drums coming. They were playing the _riau-riau_ music, the pipes shrill\
and the drums pounding, and behind them came the men and boys dancing.\
When the fifers stopped they all crouched down in the street, and when\
the reed-pipes and the fifes shrilled, and the flat, dry, hollow drums\
tapped it out again, they all went up in the air dancing. In the crowd\
you saw only the heads and shoulders of the dancers going up and down.\
\
In the square a man, bent over, was playing on a reed-pipe, and a crowd\
of children were following him shouting, and pulling at his clothes. He\
came out of the square, the children following him, and piped them past\
the caf\'e9 and down a side street. We saw his blank pockmarked face as he\
went by, piping, the children close behind him shouting and pulling at\
him.\
\
\'93He must be the village idiot,\'94 Bill said. \'93My God! look at that!\'94\
\
Down the street came dancers. The street was solid with dancers, all\
men. They were all dancing in time behind their own fifers and drummers.\
They were a club of some sort, and all wore workmen\'92s blue smocks, and\
red handkerchiefs around their necks, and carried a great banner on two\
poles. The banner danced up and down with them as they came down\
surrounded by the crowd.\
\
\'93Hurray for Wine! Hurray for the Foreigners!\'94 was painted on the banner.\
\
\'93Where are the foreigners?\'94 Robert Cohn asked.\
\
\'93We\'92re the foreigners,\'94 Bill said.\
\
All the time rockets were going up. The caf\'e9 tables were all full now.\
The square was emptying of people and the crowd was filling the caf\'e9s.\
\
\'93Where\'92s Brett and Mike?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93I\'92ll go and get them,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93Bring them here.\'94\
\
The fiesta was really started. It kept up day and night for seven days.\
The dancing kept up, the drinking kept up, the noise went on. The things\
that happened could only have happened during a fiesta. Everything\
became quite unreal finally and it seemed as though nothing could have\
any consequences. It seemed out of place to think of consequences during\
the fiesta. All during the fiesta you had the feeling, even when it was\
quiet, that you had to shout any remark to make it heard. It was the\
same feeling about any action. It was a fiesta and it went on for seven\
days.\
\
That afternoon was the big religious procession. San Fermin was\
translated from one church to another. In the procession were all the\
dignitaries, civil and religious. We could not see them because the\
crowd was too great. Ahead of the formal procession and behind it danced\
the _riau-riau_ dancers. There was one mass of yellow shirts dancing up\
and down in the crowd. All we could see of the procession through the\
closely pressed people that crowded all the side streets and curbs were\
the great giants, cigar-store Indians, thirty feet high, Moors, a King\
and Queen, whirling and waltzing solemnly to the _riau-riau_.\
\
They were all standing outside the chapel where San Fermin and the\
dignitaries had passed in, leaving a guard of soldiers, the giants, with\
the men who danced in them standing beside their resting frames, and the\
dwarfs moving with their whacking bladders through the crowd. We started\
inside and there was a smell of incense and people filing back into the\
church, but Brett was stopped just inside the door because she had no\
hat, so we went out again and along the street that ran back from the\
chapel into town. The street was lined on both sides with people keeping\
their place at the curb for the return of the procession. Some dancers\
formed a circle around Brett and started to dance. They wore big wreaths\
of white garlics around their necks. They took Bill and me by the arms\
and put us in the circle. Bill started to dance, too. They were all\
chanting. Brett wanted to dance but they did not want her to. They\
wanted her as an image to dance around. When the song ended with the\
sharp _riau-riau!_ they rushed us into a wine-shop.\
\
We stood at the counter. They had Brett seated on a wine-cask. It was\
dark in the wine-shop and full of men singing, hard-voiced singing. Back\
of the counter they drew the wine from casks. I put down money for the\
wine, but one of the men picked it up and put it back in my pocket.\
\
\'93I want a leather wine-bottle,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93There\'92s a place down the street,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92ll go get a couple.\'94\
\
The dancers did not want me to go out. Three of them were sitting on the\
high wine-cask beside Brett, teaching her to drink out of the\
wine-skins. They had hung a wreath of garlics around her neck. Some one\
insisted on giving her a glass. Somebody was teaching Bill a song.\
Singing it into his ear. Beating time on Bill\'92s back.\
\
I explained to them that I would be back. Outside in the street I went\
down the street looking for the shop that made leather wine-bottles. The\
crowd was packed on the sidewalks and many of the shops were shuttered,\
and I could not find it. I walked as far as the church, looking on both\
sides of the street. Then I asked a man and he took me by the arm and\
led me to it. The shutters were up but the door was open.\
\
Inside it smelled of fresh tanned leather and hot tar. A man was\
stencilling completed wine-skins. They hung from the roof in bunches. He\
took one down, blew it up, screwed the nozzle tight, and then jumped on\
it\
\
\'93See! It doesn\'92t leak.\'94\
\
\'93I want another one, too. A big one.\'94\
\
He took down a big one that would hold a gallon or more, from the roof.\
He blew it up, his cheeks puffing ahead of the wine-skin, and stood on\
the bota holding on to a chair.\
\
\'93What are you going to do? Sell them in Bayonne?\'94\
\
\'93No. Drink out of them.\'94\
\
He slapped me on the back.\
\
\'93Good man. Eight pesetas for the two. The lowest price.\'94\
\
The man who was stencilling the new ones and tossing them into a pile\
stopped.\
\
\'93It\'92s true,\'94 he said. \'93Eight pesetas is cheap.\'94\
\
I paid and went out and along the street back to the wine-shop. It was\
darker than ever inside and very crowded. I did not see Brett and Bill,\
and some one said they were in the back room. At the counter the girl\
filled the two wine-skins for me. One held two litres. The other held\
five litres. Filling them both cost three pesetas sixty centimos. Some\
one at the counter, that I had never seen before, tried to pay for the\
wine, but I finally paid for it myself. The man who had wanted to pay\
then bought me a drink. He would not let me buy one in return, but said\
he would take a rinse of the mouth from the new wine-bag. He tipped the\
big five-litre bag up and squeezed it so the wine hissed against the\
back of his throat.\
\
\'93All right,\'94 he said, and handed back the bag.\
\
In the back room Brett and Bill were sitting on barrels surrounded by\
the dancers. Everybody had his arms on everybody else\'92s shoulders, and\
they were all singing. Mike was sitting at a table with several men in\
their shirt-sleeves, eating from a bowl of tuna fish, chopped onions and\
vinegar. They were all drinking wine and mopping up the oil and vinegar\
with pieces of bread.\
\
\'93Hello, Jake. Hello!\'94 Mike called. \'93Come here. I want you to meet my\
friends. We\'92re all having an hors-d\'92\'9cuvre.\'94\
\
I was introduced to the people at the table. They supplied their names\
to Mike and sent for a fork for me.\
\
\'93Stop eating their dinner, Michael,\'94 Brett shouted from the\
wine-barrels.\
\
\'93I don\'92t want to eat up your meal,\'94 I said when some one handed me a\
fork.\
\
\'93Eat,\'94 he said. \'93What do you think it\'92s here for?\'94\
\
I unscrewed the nozzle of the big wine-bottle and handed it around.\
Every one took a drink, tipping the wine-skin at arm\'92s length.\
\
Outside, above the singing, we could hear the music of the procession\
going by.\
\
\'93Isn\'92t that the procession?\'94 Mike asked.\
\
\'93Nada,\'94 some one said. \'93It\'92s nothing. Drink up. Lift the bottle.\'94\
\
\'93Where did they find you?\'94 I asked Mike.\
\
\'93Some one brought me here,\'94 Mike said. \'93They said you were here.\'94\
\
\'93Where\'92s Cohn?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s passed out,\'94 Brett called. \'93They\'92ve put him away somewhere.\'94\
\
\'93Where is he?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93How should we know,\'94 Bill said. \'93I think he\'92s dead.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s not dead,\'94 Mike said. \'93I know he\'92s not dead. He\'92s just passed out\
on Anis del Mono.\'94\
\
As he said Anis del Mono one of the men at the table looked up, brought\
out a bottle from inside his smock, and handed it to me.\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93No, thanks!\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Yes. Arriba! Up with the bottle!\'94\
\
I took a drink. It tasted of licorice and warmed all the way. I could\
feel it warming in my stomach.\
\
\'93Where the hell is Cohn?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know,\'94 Mike said. \'93I\'92ll ask. Where is the drunken comrade?\'94 he\
asked in Spanish.\
\
\'93You want to see him?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Not me,\'94 said Mike. \'93This gent.\'94\
\
The Anis del Mono man wiped his mouth and stood up.\
\
\'93Come on.\'94\
\
In a back room Robert Cohn was sleeping quietly on some wine-casks. It\
was almost too dark to see his face. They had covered him with a coat\
and another coat was folded under his head. Around his neck and on his\
chest was a big wreath of twisted garlics.\
\
\'93Let him sleep,\'94 the man whispered. \'93He\'92s all right.\'94\
\
Two hours later Cohn appeared. He came into the front room still with\
the wreath of garlics around his neck. The Spaniards shouted when he\
came in. Cohn wiped his eyes and grinned.\
\
\'93I must have been sleeping,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Oh, not at all,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93You were only dead,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93Aren\'92t we going to go and have some supper?\'94 Cohn asked.\
\
\'93Do you want to eat?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Why not? I\'92m hungry.\'94\
\
\'93Eat those garlics, Robert,\'94 Mike said. \'93I say. Do eat those garlics.\'94\
\
Cohn stood there. His sleep had made him quite all right.\
\
\'93Do let\'92s go and eat,\'94 Brett said. \'93I must get a bath.\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 Bill said. \'93Let\'92s translate Brett to the hotel.\'94\
\
We said good-bye to many people and shook hands with many people and\
went out. Outside it was dark.\
\
\'93What time is it do you suppose?\'94 Cohn asked.\
\
\'93It\'92s to-morrow,\'94 Mike said. \'93You\'92ve been asleep two days.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Cohn, \'93what time is it?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s ten o\'92clock.\'94\
\
\'93What a lot we\'92ve drunk.\'94\
\
\'93You mean what a lot _we\'92ve_ drunk. You went to sleep.\'94\
\
Going down the dark streets to the hotel we saw the sky-rockets going up\
in the square. Down the side streets that led to the square we saw the\
square solid with people, those in the centre all dancing.\
\
It was a big meal at the hotel. It was the first meal of the prices\
being doubled for the fiesta, and there were several new courses. After\
the dinner we were out in the town. I remember resolving that I would\
stay up all night to watch the bulls go through the streets at six\
o\'92clock in the morning, and being so sleepy that I went to bed around\
four o\'92clock. The others stayed up.\
\
My own room was locked and I could not find the key, so I went up-stairs\
and slept on one of the beds in Cohn\'92s room. The fiesta was going on\
outside in the night, but I was too sleepy for it to keep me awake. When\
I woke it was the sound of the rocket exploding that announced the\
release of the bulls from the corrals at the edge of town. They would\
race through the streets and out to the bull-ring. I had been sleeping\
heavily and I woke feeling I was too late. I put on a coat of Cohn\'92s and\
went out on the balcony. Down below the narrow street was empty. All the\
balconies were crowded with people. Suddenly a crowd came down the\
street. They were all running, packed close together. They passed along\
and up the street toward the bull-ring and behind them came more men\
running faster, and then some stragglers who were really running. Behind\
them was a little bare space, and then the bulls galloping, tossing\
their heads up and down. It all went out of sight around the corner. One\
man fell, rolled to the gutter, and lay quiet. But the bulls went right\
on and did not notice him. They were all running together.\
\
After they went out of sight a great roar came from the bull-ring. It\
kept on. Then finally the pop of the rocket that meant the bulls had\
gotten through the people in the ring and into the corrals. I went back\
in the room and got into bed. I had been standing on the stone balcony\
in bare feet. I knew our crowd must have all been out at the bull-ring.\
Back in bed, I went to sleep.\
\
Cohn woke me when he came in. He started to undress and went over and\
closed the window because the people on the balcony of the house just\
across the street were looking in.\
\
\'93Did you see the show?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Yes. We were all there.\'94\
\
\'93Anybody get hurt?\'94\
\
\'93One of the bulls got into the crowd in the ring and tossed six or eight\
people.\'94\
\
\'93How did Brett like it?\'94\
\
\'93It was all so sudden there wasn\'92t any time for it to bother anybody.\'94\
\
\'93I wish I\'92d been up.\'94\
\
\'93We didn\'92t know where you were. We went to your room but it was locked.\'94\
\
\'93Where did you stay up?\'94\
\
\'93We danced at some club.\'94\
\
\'93I got sleepy,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93My gosh! I\'92m sleepy now,\'94 Cohn said. \'93Doesn\'92t this thing ever stop?\'94\
\
\'93Not for a week.\'94\
\
Bill opened the door and put his head in.\
\
\'93Where were you, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93I saw them go through from the balcony. How was it?\'94\
\
\'93Grand.\'94\
\
\'93Where you going?\'94\
\
\'93To sleep.\'94\
\
No one was up before noon. We ate at tables set out under the arcade.\
The town was full of people. We had to wait for a table. After lunch we\
went over to the Iru\'f1a. It had filled up, and as the time for the\
bull-fight came it got fuller, and the tables were crowded closer. There\
was a close, crowded hum that came every day before the bull-fight. The\
caf\'e9 did not make this same noise at any other time, no matter how\
crowded it was. This hum went on, and we were in it and a part of it.\
\
I had taken six seats for all the fights. Three of them were barreras,\
the first row at the ring-side, and three were sobrepuertos, seats with\
wooden backs, half-way up the amphitheatre. Mike thought Brett had best\
sit high up for her first time, and Cohn wanted to sit with them. Bill\
and I were going to sit in the barreras, and I gave the extra ticket to\
a waiter to sell. Bill said something to Cohn about what to do and how\
to look so he would not mind the horses. Bill had seen one season of\
bull-fights.\
\
\'93I\'92m not worried about how I\'92ll stand it. I\'92m only afraid I may be\
bored,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93You think so?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t look at the horses, after the bull hits them,\'94 I said to Brett.\
\'93Watch the charge and see the picador try and keep the bull off, but\
then don\'92t look again until the horse is dead if it\'92s been hit.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m a little nervy about it,\'94 Brett said. \'93I\'92m worried whether I\'92ll be\
able to go through with it all right.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll be all right. There\'92s nothing but that horse part that will\
bother you, and they\'92re only in for a few minutes with each bull. Just\
don\'92t watch when it\'92s bad.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92ll be all right,\'94 Mike said. \'93I\'92ll look after her.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think you\'92ll be bored,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93I\'92m going over to the hotel to get the glasses and the wine-skin,\'94 I\
said. \'93See you back here. Don\'92t get cock-eyed.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll come along,\'94 Bill said. Brett smiled at us.\
\
We walked around through the arcade to avoid the heat of the square.\
\
\'93That Cohn gets me,\'94 Bill said. \'93He\'92s got this Jewish superiority so\
strong that he thinks the only emotion he\'92ll get out of the fight will\
be being bored.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll watch him with the glasses,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Oh, to hell with him!\'94\
\
\'93He spends a lot of time there.\'94\
\
\'93I want him to stay there.\'94\
\
In the hotel on the stairs we met Montoya.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 said Montoya. \'93Do you want to meet Pedro Romero?\'94\
\
\'93Fine,\'94 said Bill. \'93Let\'92s go see him.\'94\
\
We followed Montoya up a flight and down the corridor.\
\
\'93He\'92s in room number eight,\'94 Montoya explained. \'93He\'92s getting dressed\
for the bull-fight.\'94\
\
Montoya knocked on the door and opened it. It was a gloomy room with a\
little light coming in from the window on the narrow street. There were\
two beds separated by a monastic partition. The electric light was on.\
The boy stood very straight and unsmiling in his bull-fighting clothes.\
His jacket hung over the back of a chair. They were just finishing\
winding his sash. His black hair shone under the electric light. He wore\
a white linen shirt and the sword-handler finished his sash and stood up\
and stepped back. Pedro Romero nodded, seeming very far away and\
dignified when we shook hands. Montoya said something about what great\
aficionados we were, and that we wanted to wish him luck. Romero\
listened very seriously. Then he turned to me. He was the best-looking\
boy I have ever seen.\
\
\'93You go to the bull-fight,\'94 he said in English.\
\
\'93You know English,\'94 I said, feeling like an idiot.\
\
\'93No,\'94 he answered, and smiled.\
\
One of three men who had been sitting on the beds came up and asked us\
if we spoke French. \'93Would you like me to interpret for you? Is there\
anything you would like to ask Pedro Romero?\'94\
\
We thanked him. What was there that you would like to ask? The boy was\
nineteen years old, alone except for his sword-handler, and the three\
hangers-on, and the bull-fight was to commence in twenty minutes. We\
wished him \'93Mucha suerte,\'94 shook hands, and went out. He was standing,\
straight and handsome and altogether by himself, alone in the room with\
the hangers-on as we shut the door.\
\
\'93He\'92s a fine boy, don\'92t you think so?\'94 Montoya asked.\
\
\'93He\'92s a good-looking kid,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93He looks like a torero,\'94 Montoya said. \'93He has the type.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a fine boy.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll see how he is in the ring,\'94 Montoya said.\
\
We found the big leather wine-bottle leaning against the wall in my\
room, took it and the field-glasses, locked the door, and went\
down-stairs.\
\
It was a good bull-fight. Bill and I were very excited about Pedro\
Romero. Montoya was sitting about ten places away. After Romero had\
killed his first bull Montoya caught my eye and nodded his head. This\
was a real one. There had not been a real one for a long time. Of the\
other two matadors, one was very fair and the other was passable. But\
there was no comparison with Romero, although neither of his bulls was\
much.\
\
Several times during the bull-fight I looked up at Mike and Brett and\
Cohn, with the glasses. They seemed to be all right. Brett did not look\
upset. All three were leaning forward on the concrete railing in front\
of them.\
\
\'93Let me take the glasses,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93Does Cohn look bored?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93That kike!\'94\
\
Outside the ring, after the bull-fight was over, you could not move in\
the crowd. We could not make our way through but had to be moved with\
the whole thing, slowly, as a glacier, back to town. We had that\
disturbed emotional feeling that always comes after a bull-fight, and\
the feeling of elation that comes after a good bull-fight. The fiesta\
was going on. The drums pounded and the pipe music was shrill, and\
everywhere the flow of the crowd was broken by patches of dancers. The\
dancers were in a crowd, so you did not see the intricate play of the\
feet. All you saw was the heads and shoulders going up and down, up and\
down. Finally, we got out of the crowd and made for the caf\'e9. The waiter\
saved chairs for the others, and we each ordered an absinthe and watched\
the crowd in the square and the dancers.\
\
\'93What do you suppose that dance is?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93It\'92s a sort of jota.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re not all the same,\'94 Bill said. \'93They dance differently to all\
the different tunes.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s swell dancing.\'94\
\
In front of us on a clear part of the street a company of boys were\
dancing. The steps were very intricate and their faces were intent and\
concentrated. They all looked down while they danced. Their rope-soled\
shoes tapped and spatted on the pavement. The toes touched. The heels\
touched. The balls of the feet touched. Then the music broke wildly and\
the step was finished and they were all dancing on up the street.\
\
\'93Here come the gentry,\'94 Bill said.\
\
They were crossing the street\
\
\'93Hello, men,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Hello, gents!\'94 said Brett. \'93You saved us seats? How nice.\'94\
\
\'93I say,\'94 Mike said, \'93that Romero what\'92shisname is somebody. Am I wrong?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, isn\'92t he lovely,\'94 Brett said. \'93And those green trousers.\'94\
\
\'93Brett never took her eyes off them.\'94\
\
\'93I say, I must borrow your glasses to-morrow.\'94\
\
\'93How did it go?\'94\
\
\'93Wonderfully! Simply perfect. I say, it is a spectacle!\'94\
\
\'93How about the horses?\'94\
\
\'93I couldn\'92t help looking at them.\'94\
\
\'93She couldn\'92t take her eyes off them,\'94 Mike said. \'93She\'92s an\
extraordinary wench.\'94\
\
\'93They do have some rather awful things happen to them,\'94 Brett said. \'93I\
couldn\'92t look away, though.\'94\
\
\'93Did you feel all right?\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t feel badly at all.\'94\
\
\'93Robert Cohn did,\'94 Mike put in. \'93You were quite green, Robert.\'94\
\
\'93The first horse did bother me,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93You weren\'92t bored, were you?\'94 asked Bill.\
\
Cohn laughed.\
\
\'93No. I wasn\'92t bored. I wish you\'92d forgive me that.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s all right,\'94 Bill said, \'93so long as you weren\'92t bored.\'94\
\
\'93He didn\'92t look bored,\'94 Mike said. \'93I thought he was going to be sick.\'94\
\
\'93I never felt that bad. It was just for a minute.\'94\
\
\'93I thought he was going to be sick. You weren\'92t bored, were you,\
Robert?\'94\
\
\'93Let up on that, Mike. I said I was sorry I said it.\'94\
\
\'93He was, you know. He was positively green.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, shove it along, Michael.\'94\
\
\'93You mustn\'92t ever get bored at your first bull-fight, Robert,\'94 Mike\
said. \'93It might make such a mess.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, shove it along, Michael,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93He said Brett was a sadist,\'94 Mike said. \'93Brett\'92s not a sadist. She\'92s\
just a lovely, healthy wench.\'94\
\
\'93Are you a sadist, Brett?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Hope not.\'94\
\
\'93He said Brett was a sadist just because she has a good, healthy\
stomach.\'94\
\
\'93Won\'92t be healthy long.\'94\
\
Bill got Mike started on something else than Cohn. The waiter brought\
the absinthe glasses.\
\
\'93Did you really like it?\'94 Bill asked Cohn.\
\
\'93No, I can\'92t say I liked it. I think it\'92s a wonderful show.\'94\
\
\'93Gad, yes! What a spectacle!\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93I wish they didn\'92t have the horse part,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93They\'92re not important,\'94 Bill said. \'93After a while you never notice\
anything disgusting.\'94\
\
\'93It is a bit strong just at the start,\'94 Brett said. \'93There\'92s a dreadful\
moment for me just when the bull starts for the horse.\'94\
\
\'93The bulls were fine,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93They were very good,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93I want to sit down below, next time.\'94 Brett drank from her glass of\
absinthe.\
\
\'93She wants to see the bull-fighters close by,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93They are something,\'94 Brett said. \'93That Romero lad is just a child.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s a damned good-looking boy,\'94 I said. \'93When we were up in his room I\
never saw a better-looking kid.\'94\
\
\'93How old do you suppose he is?\'94\
\
\'93Nineteen or twenty.\'94\
\
\'93Just imagine it.\'94\
\
The bull-fight on the second day was much better than on the first.\
Brett sat between Mike and me at the barrera, and Bill and Cohn went up\
above. Romero was the whole show. I do not think Brett saw any other\
bull-fighter. No one else did either, except the hard-shelled\
technicians. It was all Romero. There were two other matadors, but they\
did not count. I sat beside Brett and explained to Brett what it was all\
about. I told her about watching the bull, not the horse, when the bulls\
charged the picadors, and got her to watching the picador place the\
point of his pic so that she saw what it was all about, so that it\
became more something that was going on with a definite end, and less of\
a spectacle with unexplained horrors. I had her watch how Romero took\
the bull away from a fallen horse with his cape, and how he held him\
with the cape and turned him, smoothly and suavely, never wasting the\
bull. She saw how Romero avoided every brusque movement and saved his\
bulls for the last when he wanted them, not winded and discomposed but\
smoothly worn down. She saw how close Romero always worked to the bull,\
and I pointed out to her the tricks the other bull-fighters used to make\
it look as though they were working closely. She saw why she liked\
Romero\'92s cape-work and why she did not like the others.\
\
Romero never made any contortions, always it was straight and pure and\
natural in line. The others twisted themselves like corkscrews, their\
elbows raised, and leaned against the flanks of the bull after his horns\
had passed, to give a faked look of danger. Afterward, all that was\
faked turned bad and gave an unpleasant feeling. Romero\'92s bull-fighting\
gave real emotion, because he kept the absolute purity of line in his\
movements and always quietly and calmly let the horns pass him close\
each time. He did not have to emphasize their closeness. Brett saw how\
something that was beautiful done close to the bull was ridiculous if it\
were done a little way off. I told her how since the death of Joselito\
all the bull-fighters had been developing a technic that simulated this\
appearance of danger in order to give a fake emotional feeling, while\
the bull-fighter was really safe. Romero had the old thing, the holding\
of his purity of line through the maximum of exposure, while he\
dominated the bull by making him realize he was unattainable, while he\
prepared him for the killing.\
\
\'93I\'92ve never seen him do an awkward thing,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93You won\'92t until he gets frightened,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93He\'92ll never be frightened,\'94 Mike said. \'93He knows too damned much.\'94\
\
\'93He knew everything when he started. The others can\'92t ever learn what he\
was born with.\'94\
\
\'93And God, what looks,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93I believe, you know, that she\'92s falling in love with this bull-fighter\
chap,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t be surprised.\'94\
\
\'93Be a good chap, Jake. Don\'92t tell her anything more about him. Tell her\
how they beat their old mothers.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me what drunks they are.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, frightful,\'94 Mike said. \'93Drunk all day and spend all their time\
beating their poor old mothers.\'94\
\
\'93He looks that way,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Doesn\'92t he?\'94 I said.\
\
They had hitched the mules to the dead bull and then the whips cracked,\
the men ran, and the mules, straining forward, their legs pushing, broke\
into a gallop, and the bull, one horn up, his head on its side, swept a\
swath smoothly across the sand and out the red gate.\
\
\'93This next is the last one.\'94\
\
\'93Not really,\'94 Brett said. She leaned forward on the barrera. Romero\
waved his picadors to their places, then stood, his cape against his\
chest, looking across the ring to where the bull would come out.\
\
After it was over we went out and were pressed tight in the crowd.\
\
\'93These bull-fights are hell on one,\'94 Brett said. \'93I\'92m limp as a rag.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, you\'92ll get a drink,\'94 Mike said.\
\
The next day Pedro Romero did not fight. It was Miura bulls, and a very\
bad bull-fight. The next day there was no bull-fight scheduled. But all\
day and all night the fiesta kept on.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   16\
\
\
In the morning it was raining. A fog had come over the mountains from\
the sea. You could not see the tops of the mountains. The plateau was\
dull and gloomy, and the shapes of the trees and the houses were\
changed. I walked out beyond the town to look at the weather. The bad\
weather was coming over the mountains from the sea.\
\
The flags in the square hung wet from the white poles and the banners\
were wet and hung damp against the front of the houses, and in between\
the steady drizzle the rain came down and drove every one under the\
arcades and made pools of water in the square, and the streets wet and\
dark and deserted; yet the fiesta kept up without any pause. It was only\
driven under cover.\
\
The covered seats of the bull-ring had been crowded with people sitting\
out of the rain watching the concourse of Basque and Navarrais dancers\
and singers, and afterward the Val Carlos dancers in their costumes\
danced down the street in the rain, the drums sounding hollow and damp,\
and the chiefs of the bands riding ahead on their big, heavy-footed\
horses, their costumes wet, the horses\'92 coats wet in the rain. The crowd\
was in the caf\'e9s and the dancers came in, too, and sat, their\
tight-wound white legs under the tables, shaking the water from their\
belled caps, and spreading their red and purple jackets over the chairs\
to dry. It was raining hard outside.\
\
I left the crowd in the caf\'e9 and went over to the hotel to get shaved\
for dinner. I was shaving in my room when there was a knock on the door.\
\
\'93Come in,\'94 I called.\
\
Montoya walked in.\
\
\'93How are you?\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Fine,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93No bulls to-day.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said, \'93nothing but rain.\'94\
\
\'93Where are your friends?\'94\
\
\'93Over at the Iru\'f1a.\'94\
\
Montoya smiled his embarrassed smile.\
\
\'93Look,\'94 he said. \'93Do you know the American ambassador?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93Everybody knows the American ambassador.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s here in town, now.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93Everybody\'92s seen them.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve seen them, too,\'94 Montoya said. He didn\'92t say anything. I went on\
shaving.\
\
\'93Sit down,\'94 I said. \'93Let me send for a drink.\'94\
\
\'93No, I have to go.\'94\
\
I finished shaving and put my face down into the bowl and washed it with\
cold water. Montoya was standing there looking more embarrassed.\
\
\'93Look,\'94 he said. \'93I\'92ve just had a message from them at the Grand Hotel\
that they want Pedro Romero and Marcial Lalanda to come over for coffee\
to-night after dinner.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93it can\'92t hurt Marcial any.\'94\
\
\'93Marcial has been in San Sebastian all day. He drove over in a car this\
morning with Marquez. I don\'92t think they\'92ll be back to-night.\'94\
\
Montoya stood embarrassed. He wanted me to say something.\
\
\'93Don\'92t give Romero the message,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93You think so?\'94\
\
\'93Absolutely.\'94\
\
Montoya was very pleased.\
\
\'93I wanted to ask you because you were an American,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93That\'92s what I\'92d do.\'94\
\
\'93Look,\'94 said Montoya. \'93People take a boy like that. They don\'92t know what\
he\'92s worth. They don\'92t know what he means. Any foreigner can flatter\
him. They start this Grand Hotel business, and in one year they\'92re\
through.\'94\
\
\'93Like Algabeno,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes, like Algabeno.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re a fine lot,\'94 I said. \'93There\'92s one American woman down here now\
that collects bull-fighters.\'94\
\
\'93I know. They only want the young ones.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93The old ones get fat.\'94\
\
\'93Or crazy like Gallo.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93it\'92s easy. All you have to do is not give him the\
message.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s such a fine boy,\'94 said Montoya. \'93He ought to stay with his own\
people. He shouldn\'92t mix in that stuff.\'94\
\
\'93Won\'92t you have a drink?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Montoya, \'93I have to go.\'94 He went out.\
\
I went down-stairs and out the door and took a walk around through the\
arcades around the square. It was still raining. I looked in at the\
Iru\'f1a for the gang and they were not there, so I walked on around the\
square and back to the hotel. They were eating dinner in the down-stairs\
dining-room.\
\
They were well ahead of me and it was no use trying to catch them. Bill\
was buying shoe-shines for Mike. Bootblacks opened the street door and\
each one Bill called over and started to work on Mike.\
\
\'93This is the eleventh time my boots have been polished,\'94 Mike said. \'93I\
say, Bill is an ass.\'94\
\
The bootblacks had evidently spread the report. Another came in.\
\
\'93Limpia botas?\'94 he said to Bill.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Bill. \'93For this Se\'f1or.\'94\
\
The bootblack knelt down beside the one at work and started on Mike\'92s\
free shoe that shone already in the electric light.\
\
\'93Bill\'92s a yell of laughter,\'94 Mike said.\
\
I was drinking red wine, and so far behind them that I felt a little\
uncomfortable about all this shoe-shining. I looked around the room. At\
the next table was Pedro Romero. He stood up when I nodded, and asked me\
to come over and meet a friend. His table was beside ours, almost\
touching. I met the friend, a Madrid bull-fight critic, a little man\
with a drawn face. I told Romero how much I liked his work, and he was\
very pleased. We talked Spanish and the critic knew a little French. I\
reached to our table for my wine-bottle, but the critic took my arm.\
Romero laughed.\
\
\'93Drink here,\'94 he said in English.\
\
He was very bashful about his English, but he was really very pleased\
with it, and as we went on talking he brought out words he was not sure\
of, and asked me about them. He was anxious to know the English for\
_Corrida de toros_, the exact translation. Bull-fight he was suspicious\
of. I explained that bull-fight in Spanish was the _lidia_ of a _toro_.\
The Spanish word _corrida_ means in English the running of bulls\'97the\
French translation is _Course de taureaux_. The critic put that in.\
There is no Spanish word for bull-fight.\
\
Pedro Romero said he had learned a little English in Gibraltar. He was\
born in Ronda. That is not far above Gibraltar. He started bull-fighting\
in Malaga in the bull-fighting school there. He had only been at it\
three years. The bull-fight critic joked him about the number of\
_Malague\'f1o_ expressions he used. He was nineteen years old, he said. His\
older brother was with him as a banderillero, but he did not live in\
this hotel. He lived in a smaller hotel with the other people who worked\
for Romero. He asked me how many times I had seen him in the ring. I\
told him only three. It was really only two, but I did not want to\
explain after I had made the mistake.\
\
\'93Where did you see me the other time? In Madrid?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I lied. I had read the accounts of his two appearances in Madrid\
in the bull-fight papers, so I was all right.\
\
\'93The first or the second time?\'94\
\
\'93The first.\'94\
\
\'93I was very bad,\'94 he said. \'93The second time I was better. You remember?\'94\
He turned to the critic.\
\
He was not at all embarrassed. He talked of his work as something\
altogether apart from himself. There was nothing conceited or braggartly\
about him.\
\
\'93I like it very much that you like my work,\'94 he said. \'93But you haven\'92t\
seen it yet. To-morrow, if I get a good bull, I will try and show it to\
you.\'94\
\
When he said this he smiled, anxious that neither the bull-fight critic\
nor I would think he was boasting.\
\
\'93I am anxious to see it,\'94 the critic said. \'93I would like to be\
convinced.\'94\
\
\'93He doesn\'92t like my work much.\'94 Romero turned to me. He was serious.\
\
The critic explained that he liked it very much, but that so far it had\
been incomplete.\
\
\'93Wait till to-morrow, if a good one comes out.\'94\
\
\'93Have you seen the bulls for to-morrow?\'94 the critic asked me.\
\
\'93Yes. I saw them unloaded.\'94\
\
Pedro Romero leaned forward.\
\
\'93What did you think of them?\'94\
\
\'93Very nice,\'94 I said. \'93About twenty-six arrobas. Very short horns.\
Haven\'92t you seen them?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 said Romero.\
\
\'93They won\'92t weigh twenty-six arrobas,\'94 said the critic.\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Romero.\
\
\'93They\'92ve got bananas for horns,\'94 the critic said.\
\
\'93You call them bananas?\'94 asked Romero. He turned to me and smiled.\
\'93_You_ wouldn\'92t call them bananas?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93They\'92re horns all right.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re very short,\'94 said Pedro Romero. \'93Very, very short. Still, they\
aren\'92t bananas.\'94\
\
\'93I say, Jake,\'94 Brett called from the next table, \'93you _have_ deserted\
us.\'94\
\
\'93Just temporarily,\'94 I said. \'93We\'92re talking bulls.\'94\
\
\'93You _are_ superior.\'94\
\
\'93Tell him that bulls have no balls,\'94 Mike shouted. He was drunk.\
\
Romero looked at me inquiringly.\
\
\'93Drunk,\'94 I said. \'93Borracho! Muy borracho!\'94\
\
\'93You might introduce your friends,\'94 Brett said. She had not stopped\
looking at Pedro Romero. I asked them if they would like to have coffee\
with us. They both stood up. Romero\'92s face was very brown. He had very\
nice manners.\
\
I introduced them all around and they started to sit down, but there was\
not enough room, so we all moved over to the big table by the wall to\
have coffee. Mike ordered a bottle of Fundador and glasses for\
everybody. There was a lot of drunken talking.\
\
\'93Tell him I think writing is lousy,\'94 Bill said. \'93Go on, tell him. Tell\
him I\'92m ashamed of being a writer.\'94\
\
Pedro Romero was sitting beside Brett and listening to her.\
\
\'93Go on. Tell him!\'94 Bill said.\
\
Romero looked up smiling.\
\
\'93This gentleman,\'94 I said, \'93is a writer.\'94\
\
Romero was impressed. \'93This other one, too,\'94 I said, pointing at Cohn.\
\
\'93He looks like Villalta,\'94 Romero said, looking at Bill. \'93Rafael, doesn\'92t\
he look like Villalta?\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t see it,\'94 the critic said.\
\
\'93Really,\'94 Romero said in Spanish. \'93He looks a lot like Villalta. What\
does the drunken one do?\'94\
\
\'93Nothing.\'94\
\
\'93Is that why he drinks?\'94\
\
\'93No. He\'92s waiting to marry this lady.\'94\
\
\'93Tell him bulls have no balls!\'94 Mike shouted, very drunk, from the other\
end of the table.\
\
\'93What does he say?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s drunk.\'94\
\
\'93Jake,\'94 Mike called. \'93Tell him bulls have no balls!\'94\
\
\'93You understand?\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
I was sure he didn\'92t, so it was all right.\
\
\'93Tell him Brett wants to see him put on those green pants.\'94\
\
\'93Pipe down, Mike.\'94\
\
\'93Tell him Brett is dying to know how he can get into those pants.\'94\
\
\'93Pipe down.\'94\
\
During this Romero was fingering his glass and talking with Brett. Brett\
was talking French and he was talking Spanish and a little English, and\
laughing.\
\
Bill was filling the glasses.\
\
\'93Tell him Brett wants to come into\'97\'97\'94\
\
\'93Oh, pipe down, Mike, for Christ\'92s sake!\'94\
\
Romero looked up smiling. \'93Pipe down! I know that,\'94 he said.\
\
Just then Montoya came into the room. He started to smile at me, then he\
saw Pedro Romero with a big glass of cognac in his hand, sitting\
laughing between me and a woman with bare shoulders, at a table full of\
drunks. He did not even nod.\
\
Montoya went out of the room. Mike was on his feet proposing a toast.\
\'93Let\'92s all drink to\'97\'94 he began. \'93Pedro Romero,\'94 I said. Everybody stood\
up. Romero took it very seriously, and we touched glasses and drank it\
down, I rushing it a little because Mike was trying to make it clear\
that that was not at all what he was going to drink to. But it went off\
all right, and Pedro Romero shook hands with every one and he and the\
critic went out together.\
\
\'93My God! he\'92s a lovely boy,\'94 Brett said. \'93And how I would love to see\
him get into those clothes. He must use a shoe-horn.\'94\
\
\'93I started to tell him,\'94 Mike began. \'93And Jake kept interrupting me. Why\
do you interrupt me? Do you think you talk Spanish better than I do?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, shut up, Mike! Nobody interrupted you.\'94\
\
\'93No, I\'92d like to get this settled.\'94 He turned away from me. \'93Do you\
think you amount to something, Cohn? Do you think you belong here among\
us? People who are out to have a good time? For God\'92s sake don\'92t be so\
noisy, Cohn!\'94\
\
\'93Oh, cut it out, Mike,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93Do you think Brett wants you here? Do you think you add to the party?\
Why don\'92t you say something?\'94\
\
\'93I said all I had to say the other night, Mike.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not one of you literary chaps.\'94 Mike stood shakily and leaned\
against the table. \'93I\'92m not clever. But I do know when I\'92m not wanted.\
Why don\'92t you see when you\'92re not wanted, Cohn? Go away. Go away, for\
God\'92s sake. Take that sad Jewish face away. Don\'92t you think I\'92m right?\'94\
\
He looked at us.\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93Let\'92s all go over to the Iru\'f1a.\'94\
\
\'93No. Don\'92t you think I\'92m right? I love that woman.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, don\'92t start that again. Do shove it along, Michael,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you think I\'92m right, Jake?\'94\
\
Cohn still sat at the table. His face had the sallow, yellow look it got\
when he was insulted, but somehow he seemed to be enjoying it. The\
childish, drunken heroics of it. It was his affair with a lady of title.\
\
\'93Jake,\'94 Mike said. He was almost crying. \'93You know I\'92m right. Listen,\
you!\'94 He turned to Cohn: \'93Go away! Go away now!\'94\
\
\'93But I won\'92t go, Mike,\'94 said Cohn.\
\
\'93Then I\'92ll make you!\'94 Mike started toward him around the table. Cohn\
stood up and took off his glasses. He stood waiting, his face sallow,\
his hands fairly low, proudly and firmly waiting for the assault, ready\
to do battle for his lady love.\
\
I grabbed Mike. \'93Come on to the caf\'e9,\'94 I said. \'93You can\'92t hit him here\
in the hotel.\'94\
\
\'93Good!\'94 said Mike. \'93Good idea!\'94\
\
We started off. I looked back as Mike stumbled up the stairs and saw\
Cohn putting his glasses on again. Bill was sitting at the table pouring\
another glass of Fundador. Brett was sitting looking straight ahead at\
nothing.\
\
Outside on the square it had stopped raining and the moon was trying to\
get through the clouds. There was a wind blowing. The military band was\
playing and the crowd was massed on the far side of the square where the\
fireworks specialist and his son were trying to send up fire balloons. A\
balloon would start up jerkily, on a great bias, and be torn by the wind\
or blown against the houses of the square. Some fell into the crowd. The\
magnesium flared and the fireworks exploded and chased about in the\
crowd. There was no one dancing in the square. The gravel was too wet.\
\
Brett came out with Bill and joined us. We stood in the crowd and\
watched Don Manuel Orquito, the fireworks king, standing on a little\
platform, carefully starting the balloons with sticks, standing above\
the heads of the crowd to launch the balloons off into the wind. The\
wind brought them all down, and Don Manuel Orquito\'92s face was sweaty in\
the light of his complicated fireworks that fell into the crowd and\
charged and chased, sputtering and cracking, between the legs of the\
people. The people shouted as each new luminous paper bubble careened,\
caught fire, and fell.\
\
\'93They\'92re razzing Don Manuel,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93How do you know he\'92s Don Manuel?\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93His name\'92s on the programme. Don Manuel Orquito, the pirotecnico of\
esta ciudad.\'94\
\
\'93Globos illuminados,\'94 Mike said. \'93A collection of globos illuminados.\
That\'92s what the paper said.\'94\
\
The wind blew the band music away.\
\
\'93I say, I wish one would go up,\'94 Brett said. \'93That Don Manuel chap is\
furious.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s probably worked for weeks fixing them to go off, spelling out\
\'91Hail to San Fermin,\'92\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93Globos illuminados,\'94 Mike said. \'93A bunch of bloody globos illuminados.\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 said Brett. \'93We can\'92t stand here.\'94\
\
\'93Her ladyship wants a drink,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93How you know things,\'94 Brett said.\
\
Inside, the caf\'e9 was crowded and very noisy. No one noticed us come in.\
We could not find a table. There was a great noise going on.\
\
\'93Come on, let\'92s get out of here,\'94 Bill said.\
\
Outside the paseo was going in under the arcade. There were some English\
and Americans from Biarritz in sport clothes scattered at the tables.\
Some of the women stared at the people going by with lorgnons. We had\
acquired, at some time, a friend of Bill\'92s from Biarritz. She was\
staying with another girl at the Grand Hotel. The other girl had a\
headache and had gone to bed.\
\
\'93Here\'92s the pub,\'94 Mike said. It was the Bar Milano, a small, tough bar\
where you could get food and where they danced in the back room. We all\
sat down at a table and ordered a bottle of Fundador. The bar was not\
full. There was nothing going on.\
\
\'93This is a hell of a place,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93It\'92s too early.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s take the bottle and come back later,\'94 Bill said. \'93I don\'92t want to\
sit here on a night like this.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go and look at the English,\'94 Mike said. \'93I love to look at the\
English.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re awful,\'94 Bill said. \'93Where did they all come from?\'94\
\
\'93They come from Biarritz,\'94 Mike said, \'93They come to see the last day of\
the quaint little Spanish fiesta.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll festa them,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93You\'92re an extraordinarily beautiful girl.\'94 Mike turned to Bill\'92s\
friend. \'93When did you come here?\'94\
\
\'93Come off it, Michael.\'94\
\
\'93I say, she _is_ a lovely girl. Where have I been? Where have I been\
looking all this while? You\'92re a lovely thing. _Have_ we met? Come along\
with me and Bill. We\'92re going to festa the English.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll festa them,\'94 Bill said, \'93What the hell are they doing at this\
fiesta?\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 Mike said. \'93Just us three. We\'92re going to festa the bloody\
English. I hope you\'92re not English? I\'92m Scotch. I hate the English. I\'92m\
going to festa them. Come on, Bill.\'94\
\
Through the window we saw them, all three arm in arm, going toward the\
caf\'e9. Rockets were going up in the square.\
\
\'93I\'92m going to sit here,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll stay with you,\'94 Cohn said.\
\
\'93Oh, don\'92t!\'94 Brett said. \'93For God\'92s sake, go off somewhere. Can\'92t you\
see Jake and I want to talk?\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t,\'94 Cohn said. \'93I thought I\'92d sit here because I felt a little\
tight.\'94\
\
\'93What a hell of a reason for sitting with any one. If you\'92re tight, go\
to bed. Go on to bed.\'94\
\
\'93Was I rude enough to him?\'94 Brett asked. Cohn was gone. \'93My God! I\'92m so\
sick of him!\'94\
\
\'93He doesn\'92t add much to the gayety.\'94\
\
\'93He depresses me so.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s behaved very badly.\'94\
\
\'93Damned badly. He had a chance to behave so well.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s probably waiting just outside the door now.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. He would. You know I do know how he feels. He can\'92t believe it\
didn\'92t mean anything.\'94\
\
\'93I know.\'94\
\
\'93Nobody else would behave as badly. Oh, I\'92m so sick of the whole thing.\
And Michael. Michael\'92s been lovely, too.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s been damned hard on Mike.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. But he didn\'92t need to be a swine.\'94\
\
\'93Everybody behaves badly,\'94 I said. \'93Give them the proper chance.\'94\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t behave badly.\'94 Brett looked at me.\
\
\'93I\'92d be as big an ass as Cohn,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Darling, don\'92t let\'92s talk a lot of rot.\'94\
\
\'93All right. Talk about anything you like.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be difficult. You\'92re the only person I\'92ve got, and I feel rather\
awful to-night.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ve got Mike.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, Mike. Hasn\'92t he been pretty?\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93it\'92s been damned hard on Mike, having Cohn around and\
seeing him with you.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t I know it, darling? Please don\'92t make me feel any worse than I\
do.\'94\
\
Brett was nervous as I had never seen her before. She kept looking away\
from me and looking ahead at the wall.\
\
\'93Want to go for a walk?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Come on.\'94\
\
I corked up the Fundador bottle and gave it to the bartender.\
\
\'93Let\'92s have one more drink of that,\'94 Brett said. \'93My nerves are rotten.\'94\
\
We each drank a glass of the smooth amontillado brandy.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 said Brett.\
\
As we came out the door I saw Cohn walk out from under the arcade.\
\
\'93He _was_ there,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93He can\'92t be away from you.\'94\
\
\'93Poor devil!\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not sorry for him. I hate him, myself.\'94\
\
\'93I hate him, too,\'94 she shivered. \'93I hate his damned suffering.\'94\
\
We walked arm in arm down the side street away from the crowd and the\
lights of the square. The street was dark and wet, and we walked along\
it to the fortifications at the edge of town. We passed wine-shops with\
light coming out from their doors onto the black, wet street, and sudden\
bursts of music.\
\
\'93Want to go in?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
We walked out across the wet grass and onto the stone wall of the\
fortifications. I spread a newspaper on the stone and Brett sat down.\
Across the plain it was dark, and we could see the mountains. The wind\
was high up and took the clouds across the moon. Below us were the dark\
pits of the fortifications. Behind were the trees and the shadow of the\
cathedral, and the town silhouetted against the moon.\
\
\'93Don\'92t feel bad,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I feel like hell,\'94 Brett said. \'93Don\'92t let\'92s talk.\'94\
\
We looked out at the plain. The long lines of trees were dark in the\
moonlight. There were the lights of a car on the road climbing the\
mountain. Up on the top of the mountain we saw the lights of the fort.\
Below to the left was the river. It was high from the rain, and black\
and smooth. Trees were dark along the banks. We sat and looked out.\
Brett stared straight ahead. Suddenly she shivered.\
\
\'93It\'92s cold.\'94\
\
\'93Want to walk back?\'94\
\
\'93Through the park.\'94\
\
We climbed down. It was clouding over again. In the park it was dark\
under the trees.\
\
\'93Do you still love me, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Because I\'92m a goner,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93How?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m a goner. I\'92m mad about the Romero boy. I\'92m in love with him, I\
think.\'94\
\
\'93I wouldn\'92t be if I were you.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t help it. I\'92m a goner. It\'92s tearing me all up inside.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t do it.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t help it. I\'92ve never been able to help anything.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to stop it.\'94\
\
\'93How can I stop it? I can\'92t stop things. Feel that?\'94\
\
Her hand was trembling.\
\
\'93I\'92m like that all through.\'94\
\
\'93You oughtn\'92t to do it.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t help it. I\'92m a goner now, anyway. Don\'92t you see the\
difference?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve got to do something. I\'92ve got to do something I really want to do.\
I\'92ve lost my self-respect.\'94\
\
\'93You don\'92t have to do that.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, darling, don\'92t be difficult. What do you think it\'92s meant to have\
that damned Jew about, and Mike the way he\'92s acted?\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t just stay tight all the time.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, darling, please stay by me. Please stay by me and see me through\
this.\'94\
\
\'93Sure.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t say it\'92s right. It is right though for me. God knows, I\'92ve\
never felt such a bitch.\'94\
\
\'93What do you want me to do?\'94\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 Brett said. \'93Let\'92s go and find him.\'94\
\
Together we walked down the gravel path in the park in the dark, under\
the trees and then out from under the trees and past the gate into the\
street that led into town.\
\
Pedro Romero was in the caf\'e9. He was at a table with other bull-fighters\
and bull-fight critics. They were smoking cigars. When we came in they\
looked up. Romero smiled and bowed. We sat down at a table half-way down\
the room.\
\
\'93Ask him to come over and have a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Not yet. He\'92ll come over.\'94\
\
\'93I can\'92t look at him.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s nice to look at,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92ve always done just what I wanted.\'94\
\
\'93I know.\'94\
\
\'93I do feel such a bitch.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93My God!\'94 said Brett, \'93the things a woman goes through.\'94\
\
\'93Yes?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I do feel such a bitch.\'94\
\
I looked across at the table. Pedro Romero smiled. He said something to\
the other people at his table, and stood up. He came over to our table.\
I stood up and we shook hands.\
\
\'93Won\'92t you have a drink?\'94\
\
\'93You must have a drink with me,\'94 he said. He seated himself, asking\
Brett\'92s permission without saying anything. He had very nice manners.\
But he kept on smoking his cigar. It went well with his face.\
\
\'93You like cigars?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Oh, yes. I always smoke cigars.\'94\
\
It was part of his system of authority. It made him seem older. I\
noticed his skin. It was clear and smooth and very brown. There was a\
triangular scar on his cheek-bone. I saw he was watching Brett. He felt\
there was something between them. He must have felt it when Brett gave\
him her hand. He was being very careful. I think he was sure, but he did\
not want to make any mistake.\
\
\'93You fight to-morrow?\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 he said. \'93Algabeno was hurt to-day in Madrid. Did you hear?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said. \'93Badly?\'94\
\
He shook his head.\
\
\'93Nothing. Here,\'94 he showed his hand. Brett reached out and spread the\
fingers apart.\
\
\'93Oh!\'94 he said in English, \'93you tell fortunes?\'94\
\
\'93Sometimes. Do you mind?\'94\
\
\'93No. I like it.\'94 He spread his hand flat on the table. \'93Tell me I live\
for always, and be a millionaire.\'94\
\
He was still very polite, but he was surer of himself. \'93Look,\'94 he said,\
\'93do you see any bulls in my hand?\'94\
\
He laughed. His hand was very fine and the wrist was small.\
\
\'93There are thousands of bulls,\'94 Brett said. She was not at all nervous\
now. She looked lovely.\
\
\'93Good,\'94 Romero laughed. \'93At a thousand duros apiece,\'94 he said to me in\
Spanish. \'93Tell me some more.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s a good hand,\'94 Brett said. \'93I think he\'92ll live a long time.\'94\
\
\'93Say it to me. Not to your friend.\'94\
\
\'93I said you\'92d live a long time.\'94\
\
\'93I know it,\'94 Romero said. \'93I\'92m never going to die.\'94\
\
I tapped with my finger-tips on the table. Romero saw it. He shook his\
head.\
\
\'93No. Don\'92t do that. The bulls are my best friends.\'94\
\
I translated to Brett.\
\
\'93You kill your friends?\'94 she asked.\
\
\'93Always,\'94 he said in English, and laughed. \'93So they don\'92t kill me.\'94 He\
looked at her across the table.\
\
\'93You know English well.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 he said. \'93Pretty well, sometimes. But I must not let anybody\
know. It would be very bad, a torero who speaks English.\'94\
\
\'93Why?\'94 asked Brett.\
\
\'93It would be bad. The people would not like it. Not yet.\'94\
\
\'93Why not?\'94\
\
\'93They would not like it. Bull-fighters are not like that.\'94\
\
\'93What are bull-fighters like?\'94\
\
He laughed and tipped his hat down over his eyes and changed the angle\
of his cigar and the expression of his face.\
\
\'93Like at the table,\'94 he said. I glanced over. He had mimicked exactly\
the expression of Nacional. He smiled, his face natural again. \'93No. I\
must forget English.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t forget it, yet,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93No?\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
He laughed again.\
\
\'93I would like a hat like that,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Good. I\'92ll get you one.\'94\
\
\'93Right. See that you do.\'94\
\
\'93I will. I\'92ll get you one to-night.\'94\
\
I stood up. Romero rose, too.\
\
\'93Sit down,\'94 I said. \'93I must go and find our friends and bring them\
here.\'94\
\
He looked at me. It was a final look to ask if it were understood. It\
was understood all right.\
\
\'93Sit down,\'94 Brett said to him. \'93You must teach me Spanish.\'94\
\
He sat down and looked at her across the table. I went out. The\
hard-eyed people at the bull-fighter table watched me go. It was not\
pleasant. When I came back and looked in the caf\'e9, twenty minutes later,\
Brett and Pedro Romero were gone. The coffee-glasses and our three empty\
cognac-glasses were on the table. A waiter came with a cloth and picked\
up the glasses and mopped off the table.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   17\
\
\
Outside the Bar Milano I found Bill and Mike and Edna. Edna was the\
girl\'92s name.\
\
\'93We\'92ve been thrown out,\'94 Edna said.\
\
\'93By the police,\'94 said Mike. \'93There\'92s some people in there that don\'92t\
like me.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve kept them out of four fights,\'94 Edna said. \'93You\'92ve got to help me.\'94\
\
Bill\'92s face was red.\
\
\'93Come back in, Edna,\'94 he said. \'93Go on in there and dance with Mike.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s silly,\'94 Edna said. \'93There\'92ll just be another row.\'94\
\
\'93Damned Biarritz swine,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 Mike said. \'93After all, it\'92s a pub. They can\'92t occupy a whole\
pub.\'94\
\
\'93Good old Mike,\'94 Bill said. \'93Damned English swine come here and insult\
Mike and try and spoil the fiesta.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re so bloody,\'94 Mike said. \'93I hate the English.\'94\
\
\'93They can\'92t insult Mike,\'94 Bill said. \'93Mike is a swell fellow. They can\'92t\
insult Mike. I won\'92t stand it. Who cares if he is a damn bankrupt?\'94 His\
voice broke.\
\
\'93Who cares?\'94 Mike said. \'93I don\'92t care. Jake doesn\'92t care. Do _you_\
care?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Edna said. \'93Are you a bankrupt?\'94\
\
\'93Of course I am. You don\'92t care, do you, Bill?\'94\
\
Bill put his arm around Mike\'92s shoulder.\
\
\'93I wish to hell I was a bankrupt. I\'92d show those bastards.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re just English,\'94 Mike said. \'93It never makes any difference what\
the English say.\'94\
\
\'93The dirty swine,\'94 Bill said. \'93I\'92m going to clean them out.\'94\
\
\'93Bill,\'94 Edna looked at me. \'93Please don\'92t go in again, Bill. They\'92re so\
stupid.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it,\'94 said Mike. \'93They\'92re stupid. I knew that was what it was.\'94\
\
\'93They can\'92t say things like that about Mike,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93Do you know them?\'94 I asked Mike.\
\
\'93No. I never saw them. They say they know me.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t stand it,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93Come on. Let\'92s go over to the Suizo,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93They\'92re a bunch of Edna\'92s friends from Biarritz,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93They\'92re simply stupid,\'94 Edna said.\
\
\'93One of them\'92s Charley Blackman, from Chicago,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93I was never in Chicago,\'94 Mike said.\
\
Edna started to laugh and could not stop.\
\
\'93Take me away from here,\'94 she said, \'93you bankrupts.\'94\
\
\'93What kind of a row was it?\'94 I asked Edna. We were walking across the\
square to the Suizo. Bill was gone.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know what happened, but some one had the police called to keep\
Mike out of the back room. There were some people that had known Mike at\
Cannes. What\'92s the matter with Mike?\'94\
\
\'93Probably he owes them money\'94 I said. \'93That\'92s what people usually get\
bitter about.\'94\
\
In front of the ticket-booths out in the square there were two lines of\
people waiting. They were sitting on chairs or crouched on the ground\
with blankets and newspapers around them. They were waiting for the\
wickets to open in the morning to buy tickets for the bull-fight. The\
night was clearing and the moon was out. Some of the people in the line\
were sleeping.\
\
At the Caf\'e9 Suizo we had just sat down and ordered Fundador when Robert\
Cohn came up.\
\
\'93Where\'92s Brett?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93She was with you.\'94\
\
\'93She must have gone to bed.\'94\
\
\'93She\'92s not.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know where she is.\'94\
\
His face was sallow under the light. He was standing up.\
\
\'93Tell me where she is.\'94\
\
\'93Sit down,\'94 I said. \'93I don\'92t know where she is.\'94\
\
\'93The hell you don\'92t!\'94\
\
\'93You can shut your face.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me where Brett is.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll not tell you a damn thing.\'94\
\
\'93You know where she is.\'94\
\
\'93If I did I wouldn\'92t tell you.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, go to hell, Cohn,\'94 Mike called from the table. \'93Brett\'92s gone off\
with the bull-fighter chap. They\'92re on their honeymoon.\'94\
\
\'93You shut up.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, go to hell!\'94 Mike said languidly.\
\
\'93Is that where she is?\'94 Cohn turned to me.\
\
\'93Go to hell!\'94\
\
\'93She was with you. Is that where she is?\'94\
\
\'93Go to hell!\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll make you tell me\'94\'97he stepped forward\'97\'93you damned pimp.\'94\
\
I swung at him and he ducked. I saw his face duck sideways in the light.\
He hit me and I sat down on the pavement. As I started to get on my feet\
he hit me twice. I went down backward under a table. I tried to get up\
and felt I did not have any legs. I felt I must get on my feet and try\
and hit him. Mike helped me up. Some one poured a carafe of water on my\
head. Mike had an arm around me, and I found I was sitting on a chair.\
Mike was pulling at my ears.\
\
\'93I say, you were cold,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93Where the hell were you?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, I was around.\'94\
\
\'93You didn\'92t want to mix in it?\'94\
\
\'93He knocked Mike down, too,\'94 Edna said.\
\
\'93He didn\'92t knock me out,\'94 Mike said. \'93I just lay there.\'94\
\
\'93Does this happen every night at your fiestas?\'94 Edna asked. \'93Wasn\'92t that\
Mr. Cohn?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m all right,\'94 I said. \'93My head\'92s a little wobbly.\'94\
\
There were several waiters and a crowd of people standing around.\
\
\'93Vaya!\'94 said Mike. \'93Get away. Go on.\'94\
\
The waiters moved the people away.\
\
\'93It was quite a thing to watch,\'94 Edna said. \'93He must be a boxer.\'94\
\
\'93He is.\'94\
\
\'93I wish Bill had been here,\'94 Edna said. \'93I\'92d like to have seen Bill\
knocked down, too. I\'92ve always wanted to see Bill knocked down. He\'92s so\
big.\'94\
\
\'93I was hoping he would knock down a waiter,\'94 Mike said, \'93and get\
arrested. I\'92d like to see Mr. Robert Cohn in jail.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Oh, no,\'94 said Edna. \'93You don\'92t mean that.\'94\
\
\'93I do, though,\'94 Mike said. \'93I\'92m not one of these chaps likes being\
knocked about. I never play games, even.\'94\
\
Mike took a drink.\
\
\'93I never liked to hunt, you know. There was always the danger of having\
a horse fall on you. How do you feel, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re nice,\'94 Edna said to Mike. \'93Are you really a bankrupt?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m a tremendous bankrupt,\'94 Mike said. \'93I owe money to everybody. Don\'92t\
you owe any money?\'94\
\
\'93Tons.\'94\
\
\'93I owe everybody money,\'94 Mike said. \'93I borrowed a hundred pesetas from\
Montoya to-night.\'94\
\
\'93The hell you did,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll pay it back,\'94 Mike said. \'93I always pay everything back.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s why you\'92re a bankrupt, isn\'92t it?\'94 Edna said.\
\
I stood up. I had heard them talking from a long way away. It all seemed\
like some bad play.\
\
\'93I\'92m going over to the hotel,\'94 I said. Then I heard them talking about\
me.\
\
\'93Is he all right?\'94 Edna asked.\
\
\'93We\'92d better walk with him.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m all right,\'94 I said. \'93Don\'92t come. I\'92ll see you all later.\'94\
\
I walked away from the caf\'e9. They were sitting at the table. I looked\
back at them and at the empty tables. There was a waiter sitting at one\
of the tables with his head in his hands.\
\
Walking across the square to the hotel everything looked new and\
changed. I had never seen the trees before. I had never seen the\
flagpoles before, nor the front of the theatre. It was all different. I\
felt as I felt once coming home from an out-of-town football game. I was\
carrying a suitcase with my football things in it, and I walked up the\
street from the station in the town I had lived in all my life and it\
was all new. They were raking the lawns and burning leaves in the road,\
and I stopped for a long time and watched. It was all strange. Then I\
went on, and my feet seemed to be a long way off, and everything seemed\
to come from a long way off, and I could hear my feet walking a great\
distance away. I had been kicked in the head early in the game. It was\
like that crossing the square. It was like that going up the stairs in\
the hotel. Going up the stairs took a long time, and I had the feeling\
that I was carrying my suitcase. There was a light in the room. Bill\
came out and met me in the hall.\
\
\'93Say,\'94 he said, \'93go up and see Cohn. He\'92s been in a jam, and he\'92s asking\
for you.\'94\
\
\'93The hell with him.\'94\
\
\'93Go on. Go on up and see him.\'94\
\
I did not want to climb another flight of stairs.\
\
\'93What are you looking at me that way for?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not looking at you. Go on up and see Cohn. He\'92s in bad shape.\'94\
\
\'93You were drunk a little while ago,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92m drunk now,\'94 Bill said. \'93But you go up and see Cohn. He wants to see\
you.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 I said. It was just a matter of climbing more stairs. I\
went on up the stairs carrying my phantom suitcase. I walked down the\
hall to Cohn\'92s room. The door was shut and I knocked.\
\
\'93Who is it?\'94\
\
\'93Barnes.\'94\
\
\'93Come in, Jake.\'94\
\
I opened the door and went in, and set down my suitcase. There was no\
light in the room. Cohn was lying, face down, on the bed in the dark.\
\
\'93Hello, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t call me Jake.\'94\
\
I stood by the door. It was just like this that I had come home. Now it\
was a hot bath that I needed. A deep, hot bath, to lie back in.\
\
\'93Where\'92s the bathroom?\'94 I asked.\
\
Cohn was crying. There he was, face down on the bed, crying. He had on a\
white polo shirt, the kind he\'92d worn at Princeton.\
\
\'93I\'92m sorry, Jake. Please forgive me.\'94\
\
\'93Forgive you, hell.\'94\
\
\'93Please forgive me, Jake.\'94\
\
I did not say anything. I stood there by the door.\
\
\'93I was crazy. You must see how it was.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, that\'92s all right.\'94\
\
\'93I couldn\'92t stand it about Brett.\'94\
\
\'93You called me a pimp.\'94\
\
I did not care. I wanted a hot bath. I wanted a hot bath in deep water.\
\
\'93I know. Please don\'92t remember it. I was crazy.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s all right.\'94\
\
He was crying. His voice was funny. He lay there in his white shirt on\
the bed in the dark. His polo shirt.\
\
\'93I\'92m going away in the morning.\'94\
\
He was crying without making any noise.\
\
\'93I just couldn\'92t stand it about Brett. I\'92ve been through hell, Jake.\
It\'92s been simply hell. When I met her down here Brett treated me as\
though I were a perfect stranger. I just couldn\'92t stand it. We lived\
together at San Sebastian. I suppose you know it. I can\'92t stand it any\
more.\'94\
\
He lay there on the bed.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93I\'92m going to take a bath.\'94\
\
\'93You were the only friend I had, and I loved Brett so.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93so long.\'94\
\
\'93I guess it isn\'92t any use,\'94 he said. \'93I guess it isn\'92t any damn use.\'94\
\
\'93What?\'94\
\
\'93Everything. Please say you forgive me, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93It\'92s all right.\'94\
\
\'93I felt so terribly. I\'92ve been through such hell, Jake. Now everything\'92s\
gone. Everything.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93so long. I\'92ve got to go.\'94\
\
He rolled over, sat on the edge of the bed, and then stood up.\
\
\'93So long, Jake,\'94 he said. \'93You\'92ll shake hands, won\'92t you?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. Why not?\'94\
\
We shook hands. In the dark I could not see his face very well.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 I said, \'93see you in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going away in the morning.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 I said.\
\
I went out. Cohn was standing in the door of the room.\
\
\'93Are you all right, Jake?\'94 he asked.\
\
\'93Oh, yes,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m all right.\'94\
\
I could not find the bathroom. After a while I found it. There was a\
deep stone tub. I turned on the taps and the water would not run. I sat\
down on the edge of the bath-tub. When I got up to go I found I had\
taken off my shoes. I hunted for them and found them and carried them\
down-stairs. I found my room and went inside and undressed and got into\
bed.\
\
                 *        *        *        *        *\
\
I woke with a headache and the noise of the bands going by in the\
street. I remembered I had promised to take Bill\'92s friend Edna to see\
the bulls go through the street and into the ring. I dressed and went\
down-stairs and out into the cold early morning. People were crossing\
the square, hurrying toward the bull-ring. Across the square were the\
two lines of men in front of the ticket-booths. They were still waiting\
for the tickets to go on sale at seven o\'92clock. I hurried across the\
street to the caf\'e9. The waiter told me that my friends had been there\
and gone.\
\
\'93How many were they?\'94\
\
\'93Two gentlemen and a lady.\'94\
\
That was all right. Bill and Mike were with Edna. She had been afraid\
last night they would pass out. That was why I was to be sure to take\
her. I drank the coffee and hurried with the other people toward the\
bull-ring. I was not groggy now. There was only a bad headache.\
Everything looked sharp and clear, and the town smelt of the early\
morning.\
\
The stretch of ground from the edge of the town to the bull-ring was\
muddy. There was a crowd all along the fence that led to the ring, and\
the outside balconies and the top of the bull-ring were solid with\
people. I heard the rocket and I knew I could not get into the ring in\
time to see the bulls come in, so I shoved through the crowd to the\
fence. I was pushed close against the planks of the fence. Between the\
two fences of the runway the police were clearing the crowd along. They\
walked or trotted on into the bull-ring. Then people commenced to come\
running. A drunk slipped and fell. Two policemen grabbed him and rushed\
him over to the fence. The crowd were running fast now. There was a\
great shout from the crowd, and putting my head through between the\
boards I saw the bulls just coming out of the street into the long\
running pen. They were going fast and gaining on the crowd. Just then\
another drunk started out from the fence with a blouse in his hands. He\
wanted to do capework with the bulls. The two policemen tore out,\
collared him, one hit him with a club, and they dragged him against the\
fence and stood flattened out against the fence as the last of the crowd\
and the bulls went by. There were so many people running ahead of the\
bulls that the mass thickened and slowed up going through the gate into\
the ring, and as the bulls passed, galloping together, heavy,\
muddy-sided, horns swinging, one shot ahead, caught a man in the running\
crowd in the back and lifted him in the air. Both the man\'92s arms were by\
his sides, his head went back as the horn went in, and the bull lifted\
him and then dropped him. The bull picked another man running in front,\
but the man disappeared into the crowd, and the crowd was through the\
gate and into the ring with the bulls behind them. The red door of the\
ring went shut, the crowd on the outside balconies of the bull-ring were\
pressing through to the inside, there was a shout, then another shout.\
\
The man who had been gored lay face down in the trampled mud. People\
climbed over the fence, and I could not see the man because the crowd\
was so thick around him. From inside the ring came the shouts. Each\
shout meant a charge by some bull into the crowd. You could tell by the\
degree of intensity in the shout how bad a thing it was that was\
happening. Then the rocket went up that meant the steers had gotten the\
bulls out of the ring and into the corrals. I left the fence and started\
back toward the town.\
\
Back in the town I went to the caf\'e9 to have a second coffee and some\
buttered toast. The waiters were sweeping out the caf\'e9 and mopping off\
the tables. One came over and took my order.\
\
\'93Anything happen at the encierro?\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t see it all. One man was badly cogido.\'94\
\
\'93Where?\'94\
\
\'93Here.\'94 I put one hand on the small of my back and the other on my\
chest, where it looked as though the horn must have come through. The\
waiter nodded his head and swept the crumbs from the table with his\
cloth.\
\
\'93Badly cogido,\'94 he said. \'93All for sport. All for pleasure.\'94\
\
He went away and came back with the long-handled coffee and milk pots.\
He poured the milk and coffee. It came out of the long spouts in two\
streams into the big cup. The waiter nodded his head.\
\
\'93Badly cogido through the back,\'94 he said. He put the pots down on the\
table and sat down in the chair at the table. \'93A big horn wound. All for\
fun. Just for fun. What do you think of that?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s it. All for fun. Fun, you understand.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92re not an aficionado?\'94\
\
\'93Me? What are bulls? Animals. Brute animals.\'94 He stood up and put his\
hand on the small of his back. \'93Right through the back. A cornada right\
through the back. For fun\'97you understand.\'94\
\
He shook his head and walked away, carrying the coffee-pots. Two men\
were going by in the street. The waiter shouted to them. They were\
grave-looking. One shook his head. \'93Muerto!\'94 he called.\
\
The waiter nodded his head. The two men went on. They were on some\
errand. The waiter came over to my table.\
\
\'93You hear? Muerto. Dead. He\'92s dead. With a horn through him. All for\
morning fun. Es muy flamenco.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s bad.\'94\
\
\'93Not for me,\'94 the waiter said. \'93No fun in that for me.\'94\
\
Later in the day we learned that the man who was killed was named\
Vicente Girones, and came from near Tafalla. The next day in the paper\
we read that he was twenty-eight years old, and had a farm, a wife, and\
two children. He had continued to come to the fiesta each year after he\
was married. The next day his wife came in from Tafalla to be with the\
body, and the day after there was a service in the chapel of San Fermin,\
and the coffin was carried to the railway-station by members of the\
dancing and drinking society of Tafalla. The drums marched ahead, and\
there was music on the fifes, and behind the men who carried the coffin\
walked the wife and two children. . . . Behind them marched all the\
members of the dancing and drinking societies of Pamplona, Estella,\
Tafalla, and Sanguesa who could stay over for the funeral. The coffin\
was loaded into the baggage-car of the train, and the widow and the two\
children rode, sitting, all three together, in an open third-class\
railway-carriage. The train started with a jerk, and then ran smoothly,\
going down grade around the edge of the plateau and out into the fields\
of grain that blew in the wind on the plain on the way to Tafalla.\
\
The bull who killed Vicente Girones was named Bocanegra, was Number 118\
of the bull-breeding establishment of Sanchez Tabemo, and was killed by\
Pedro Romero as the third bull of that same afternoon. His ear was cut\
by popular acclamation and given to Pedro Romero, who, in turn, gave it\
to Brett, who wrapped it in a handkerchief belonging to myself, and left\
both ear and handkerchief, along with a number of Muratti\
cigarette-stubs, shoved far back in the drawer of the bed-table that\
stood beside her bed in the Hotel Montoya, in Pamplona.\
\
                 *        *        *        *        *\
\
Back in the hotel, the night watchman was sitting on a bench inside the\
door. He had been there all night and was very sleepy. He stood up as I\
came in. Three of the waitresses came in at the same time. They had been\
to the morning show at the bull-ring. They went up-stairs laughing. I\
followed them up-stairs and went into my room. I took off my shoes and\
lay down on the bed. The window was open onto the balcony and the\
sunlight was bright in the room. I did not feel sleepy. It must have\
been half past three o\'92clock when I had gone to bed and the bands had\
waked me at six. My jaw was sore on both sides. I felt it with my thumb\
and fingers. That damn Cohn. He should have hit somebody the first time\
he was insulted, and then gone away. He was so sure that Brett loved\
him. He was going to stay, and true love would conquer all. Some one\
knocked on the door.\
\
\'93Come in.\'94\
\
It was Bill and Mike. They sat down on the bed.\
\
\'93Some encierro,\'94 Bill said. \'93Some encierro.\'94\
\
\'93I say, weren\'92t you there?\'94 Mike asked. \'93Ring for some beer, Bill.\'94\
\
\'93What a morning!\'94 Bill said. He mopped off his face. \'93My God! what a\
morning! And here\'92s old Jake. Old Jake, the human punching-bag.\'94\
\
\'93What happened inside?\'94\
\
\'93Good God!\'94 Bill said, \'93what happened, Mike?\'94\
\
\'93There were these bulls coming in,\'94 Mike said. \'93Just ahead of them was\
the crowd, and some chap tripped and brought the whole lot of them\
down.\'94\
\
\'93And the bulls all came in right over them,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93I heard them yell.\'94\
\
\'93That was Edna,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93Chaps kept coming out and waving their shirts.\'94\
\
\'93One bull went along the barrera and hooked everybody over.\'94\
\
\'93They took about twenty chaps to the infirmary,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93What a morning!\'94 Bill said. \'93The damn police kept arresting chaps that\
wanted to go and commit suicide with the bulls.\'94\
\
\'93The steers took them in, in the end,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93It took about an hour.\'94\
\
\'93It was really about a quarter of an hour,\'94 Mike objected.\
\
\'93Oh, go to hell,\'94 Bill said. \'93You\'92ve been in the war. It was two hours\
and a half for me.\'94\
\
\'93Where\'92s that beer?\'94 Mike asked.\
\
\'93What did you do with the lovely Edna?\'94\
\
\'93We took her home just now. She\'92s gone to bed.\'94\
\
\'93How did she like it?\'94\
\
\'93Fine. We told her it was just like that every morning.\'94\
\
\'93She was impressed,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93She wanted us to go down in the ring, too,\'94 Bill said. \'93She likes\
action.\'94\
\
\'93I said it wouldn\'92t be fair to my creditors,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93What a morning,\'94 Bill said. \'93And what a night!\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s your jaw, Jake?\'94 Mike asked.\
\
\'93Sore,\'94 I said.\
\
Bill laughed.\
\
\'93Why didn\'92t you hit him with a chair?\'94\
\
\'93You can talk,\'94 Mike said. \'93He\'92d have knocked you out, too. I never saw\
him hit me. I rather think I saw him just before, and then quite\
suddenly I was sitting down in the street, and Jake was lying under a\
table.\'94\
\
\'93Where did he go afterward?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93Here she is,\'94 Mike said. \'93Here\'92s the beautiful lady with the beer.\'94\
\
The chambermaid put the tray with the beer-bottles and glasses down on\
the table.\
\
\'93Now bring up three more bottles,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93Where did Cohn go after he hit me?\'94 I asked Bill.\
\
\'93Don\'92t you know about that?\'94 Mike was opening a beer-bottle. He poured\
the beer into one of the glasses, holding the glass close to the bottle.\
\
\'93Really?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93Why he went in and found Brett and the bull-fighter chap in the\
bull-fighter\'92s room, and then he massacred the poor, bloody\
bull-fighter.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93What a night!\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93He nearly killed the poor, bloody bull-fighter. Then Cohn wanted to\
take Brett away. Wanted to make an honest woman of her, I imagine.\
Damned touching scene.\'94\
\
He took a long drink of the beer.\
\
\'93He is an ass.\'94\
\
\'93What happened?\'94\
\
\'93Brett gave him what for. She told him off. I think she was rather\
good.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll bet she was,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93Then Cohn broke down and cried, and wanted to shake hands with the\
bull-fighter fellow. He wanted to shake hands with Brett, too.\'94\
\
\'93I know. He shook hands with me.\'94\
\
\'93Did he? Well, they weren\'92t having any of it. The bull-fighter fellow\
was rather good. He didn\'92t say much, but he kept getting up and getting\
knocked down again. Cohn couldn\'92t knock him out. It must have been\
damned funny.\'94\
\
\'93Where did you hear all this?\'94\
\
\'93Brett. I saw her this morning.\'94\
\
\'93What happened finally?\'94\
\
\'93It seems the bull-fighter fellow was sitting on the bed. He\'92d been\
knocked down about fifteen times, and he wanted to fight some more.\
Brett held him and wouldn\'92t let him get up. He was weak, but Brett\
couldn\'92t hold him, and he got up. Then Cohn said he wouldn\'92t hit him\
again. Said he couldn\'92t do it. Said it would be wicked. So the\
bull-fighter chap sort of rather staggered over to him. Cohn went back\
against the wall.\
\
\'93\'91So you won\'92t hit me?\'92\
\
\'93\'91No,\'92 said Cohn. \'91I\'92d be ashamed to.\'92\
\
\'93So the bull-fighter fellow hit him just as hard as he could in the\
face, and then sat down on the floor. He couldn\'92t get up, Brett said.\
Cohn wanted to pick him up and carry him to the bed. He said if Cohn\
helped him he\'92d kill him, and he\'92d kill him anyway this morning if Cohn\
wasn\'92t out of town. Cohn was crying, and Brett had told him off, and he\
wanted to shake hands. I\'92ve told you that before.\'94\
\
\'93Tell the rest,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93It seems the bull-fighter chap was sitting on the floor. He was waiting\
to get strength enough to get up and hit Cohn again. Brett wasn\'92t having\
any shaking hands, and Cohn was crying and telling her how much he loved\
her, and she was telling him not to be a ruddy ass. Then Cohn leaned\
down to shake hands with the bull-fighter fellow. No hard feelings, you\
know. All for forgiveness. And the bull-fighter chap hit him in the face\
again.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s quite a kid,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93He ruined Cohn,\'94 Mike said. \'93You know I don\'92t think Cohn will ever want\
to knock people about again.\'94\
\
\'93When did you see Brett?\'94\
\
\'93This morning. She came in to get some things. She\'92s looking after this\
Romero lad.\'94\
\
He poured out another bottle of beer.\
\
\'93Brett\'92s rather cut up. But she loves looking after people. That\'92s how\
we came to go off together. She was looking after me.\'94\
\
\'93I know,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I\'92m rather drunk,\'94 Mike said. \'93I think I\'92ll _stay_ rather drunk. This\
is all awfully amusing, but it\'92s not too pleasant. It\'92s not too pleasant\
for me.\'94\
\
He drank off the beer.\
\
\'93I gave Brett what for, you know. I said if she would go about with Jews\
and bull-fighters and such people, she must expect trouble.\'94 He leaned\
forward. \'93I say, Jake, do you mind if I drink that bottle of yours?\
She\'92ll bring you another one.\'94\
\
\'93Please,\'94 I said. \'93I wasn\'92t drinking it, anyway.\'94\
\
Mike started to open the bottle. \'93Would you mind opening it?\'94 I pressed\
up the wire fastener and poured it for him.\
\
\'93You know,\'94 Mike went on, \'93Brett was rather good. She\'92s always rather\
good. I gave her a fearful hiding about Jews and bull-fighters, and all\
those sort of people, and do you know what she said: \'91Yes. I\'92ve had such\
a hell of a happy life with the British aristocracy!\'92\'94\
\
He took a drink.\
\
\'93That was rather good. Ashley, chap she got the title from, was a\
sailor, you know. Ninth baronet. When he came home he wouldn\'92t sleep in\
a bed. Always made Brett sleep on the floor. Finally, when he got really\
bad, he used to tell her he\'92d kill her. Always slept with a loaded\
service revolver. Brett used to take the shells out when he\'92d gone to\
sleep. She hasn\'92t had an absolutely happy life. Brett. Damned shame,\
too. She enjoys things so.\'94\
\
He stood up. His hand was shaky.\
\
\'93I\'92m going in the room. Try and get a little sleep.\'94\
\
He smiled.\
\
\'93We go too long without sleep in these fiestas. I\'92m going to start now\
and get plenty of sleep. Damn bad thing not to get sleep. Makes you\
frightfully nervy.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll see you at noon at the Iru\'f1a,\'94 Bill said.\
\
Mike went out the door. We heard him in the next room.\
\
He rang the bell and the chambermaid came and knocked at the door.\
\
\'93Bring up half a dozen bottles of beer and a bottle of Fundador,\'94 Mike\
told her.\
\
\'93Si, Se\'f1orito.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going to bed,\'94 Bill said. \'93Poor old Mike. I had a hell of a row\
about him last night.\'94\
\
\'93Where? At that Milano place?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. There was a fellow there that had helped pay Brett and Mike out of\
Cannes, once. He was damned nasty.\'94\
\
\'93I know the story.\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t. Nobody ought to have a right to say things about Mike.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s what makes it bad.\'94\
\
\'93They oughtn\'92t to have any right. I wish to hell they didn\'92t have any\
right. I\'92m going to bed.\'94\
\
\'93Was anybody killed in the ring?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so. Just badly hurt.\'94\
\
\'93A man was killed outside in the runway.\'94\
\
\'93Was there?\'94 said Bill.\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   18\
\
\
At noon we were all at the caf\'e9. It was crowded. We were eating shrimps\
and drinking beer. The town was crowded. Every street was full. Big\
motor-cars from Biarritz and San Sebastian kept driving up and parking\
around the square. They brought people for the bull-fight. Sight-seeing\
cars came up, too. There was one with twenty-five Englishwomen in it.\
They sat in the big, white car and looked through their glasses at the\
fiesta. The dancers were all quite drunk. It was the last day of the\
fiesta.\
\
The fiesta was solid and unbroken, but the motor-cars and tourist-cars\
made little islands of onlookers. When the cars emptied, the onlookers\
were absorbed into the crowd. You did not see them again except as sport\
clothes, odd-looking at a table among the closely packed peasants in\
black smocks. The fiesta absorbed even the Biarritz English so that you\
did not see them unless you passed close to a table. All the time there\
was music in the street. The drums kept on pounding and the pipes were\
going. Inside the caf\'e9s men with their hands gripping the table, or on\
each other\'92s shoulders, were singing the hard-voiced singing.\
\
\'93Here comes Brett,\'94 Bill said.\
\
I looked and saw her coming through the crowd in the square, walking,\
her head up, as though the fiesta were being staged in her honor, and\
she found it pleasant and amusing.\
\
\'93Hello, you chaps!\'94 she said. \'93I say, I _have_ a thirst.\'94\
\
\'93Get another big beer,\'94 Bill said to the waiter.\
\
\'93Shrimps?\'94\
\
\'93Is Cohn gone?\'94 Brett asked.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 Bill said. \'93He hired a car.\'94\
\
The beer came. Brett started to lift the glass mug and her hand shook.\
She saw it and smiled, and leaned forward and took a long sip.\
\
\'93Good beer.\'94\
\
\'93Very good,\'94 I said. I was nervous about Mike. I did not think he had\
slept. He must have been drinking all the time, but he seemed to be\
under control.\
\
\'93I heard Cohn had hurt you, Jake,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93No. Knocked me out. That was all.\'94\
\
\'93I say, he did hurt Pedro Romero,\'94 Brett said. \'93He hurt him most badly.\'94\
\
\'93How is he?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92ll be all right. He won\'92t go out of the room.\'94\
\
\'93Does he look badly?\'94\
\
\'93Very. He was really hurt. I told him I wanted to pop out and see you\
chaps for a minute.\'94\
\
\'93Is he going to fight?\'94\
\
\'93Rather. I\'92m going with you, if you don\'92t mind.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s your boy friend?\'94 Mike asked. He had not listened to anything\
that Brett had said.\
\
\'93Brett\'92s got a bull-fighter,\'94 he said. \'93She had a Jew named Cohn, but he\
turned out badly.\'94\
\
Brett stood up.\
\
\'93I am not going to listen to that sort of rot from you, Michael.\'94\
\
\'93How\'92s your boy friend?\'94\
\
\'93Damned well,\'94 Brett said. \'93Watch him this afternoon.\'94\
\
\'93Brett\'92s got a bull-fighter,\'94 Mike said. \'93A beautiful, bloody\
bull-fighter.\'94\
\
\'93Would you mind walking over with me? I want to talk to you, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93Tell him all about your bull-fighter,\'94 Mike said. \'93Oh, to hell with\
your bull-fighter!\'94 He tipped the table so that all the beers and the\
dish of shrimps went over in a crash.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 Brett said. \'93Let\'92s get out of this.\'94\
\
In the crowd crossing the square I said: \'93How is it?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not going to see him after lunch until the fight. His people come\
in and dress him. They\'92re very angry about me, he says.\'94\
\
Brett was radiant. She was happy. The sun was out and the day was\
bright.\
\
\'93I feel altogether changed,\'94 Brett said. \'93You\'92ve no idea, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93Anything you want me to do?\'94\
\
\'93No, just go to the fight with me.\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll see you at lunch?\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92m eating with him.\'94\
\
We were standing under the arcade at the door of the hotel. They were\
carrying tables out and setting them up under the arcade.\
\
\'93Want to take a turn out to the park?\'94 Brett asked. \'93I don\'92t want to go\
up yet. I fancy he\'92s sleeping.\'94\
\
We walked along past the theatre and out of the square and along through\
the barracks of the fair, moving with the crowd between the lines of\
booths. We came out on a cross-street that led to the Paseo de Sarasate.\
We could see the crowd walking there, all the fashionably dressed\
people. They were making the turn at the upper end of the park.\
\
\'93Don\'92t let\'92s go there,\'94 Brett said. \'93I don\'92t want staring at just now.\'94\
\
We stood in the sunlight. It was hot and good after the rain and the\
clouds from the sea.\
\
\'93I hope the wind goes down,\'94 Brett said. \'93It\'92s very bad for him.\'94\
\
\'93So do I.\'94\
\
\'93He says the bulls are all right.\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re good.\'94\
\
\'93Is that San Fermin\'92s?\'94\
\
Brett looked at the yellow wall of the chapel.\
\
\'93Yes. Where the show started on Sunday.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go in. Do you mind? I\'92d rather like to pray a little for him or\
something.\'94\
\
We went in through the heavy leather door that moved very lightly. It\
was dark inside. Many people were praying. You saw them as your eyes\
adjusted themselves to the half-light. We knelt at one of the long\
wooden benches. After a little I felt Brett stiffen beside me, and saw\
she was looking straight ahead.\
\
\'93Come on,\'94 she whispered throatily. \'93Let\'92s get out of here. Makes me\
damned nervous.\'94\
\
Outside in the hot brightness of the street Brett looked up at the\
tree-tops in the wind. The praying had not been much of a success.\
\
\'93Don\'92t know why I get so nervy in church,\'94 Brett said. \'93Never does me\
any good.\'94\
\
We walked along.\
\
\'93I\'92m damned bad for a religious atmosphere,\'94 Brett said. \'93I\'92ve the wrong\
type of face.\
\
\'93You know,\'94 Brett said, \'93I\'92m not worried about him at all. I just feel\
happy about him.\'94\
\
\'93Good.\'94\
\
\'93I wish the wind would drop, though.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s liable to go down by five o\'92clock.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s hope.\'94\
\
\'93You might pray,\'94 I laughed.\
\
\'93Never does me any good. I\'92ve never gotten anything I prayed for. Have\
you?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, rot,\'94 said Brett. \'93Maybe it works for some people, though. You\
don\'92t look very religious, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m pretty religious.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, rot,\'94 said Brett. \'93Don\'92t start proselyting to-day. To-day\'92s going\
to be bad enough as it is.\'94\
\
It was the first time I had seen her in the old happy, careless way\
since before she went off with Cohn. We were back again in front of the\
hotel. All the tables were set now, and already several were filled with\
people eating.\
\
\'93Do look after Mike,\'94 Brett said. \'93Don\'92t let him get too bad.\'94\
\
\'93Your frients haff gone up-stairs,\'94 the German ma\'eetre d\'92h\'f4tel said in\
English. He was a continual eavesdropper. Brett turned to him:\
\
\'93Thank you, so much. Have you anything else to say?\'94\
\
\'93No, _ma\'92am_.\'94\
\
\'93Good,\'94 said Brett.\
\
\'93Save us a table for three,\'94 I said to the German. He smiled his dirty\
little pink-and-white smile.\
\
\'93Iss madam eating here?\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Den I think a tabul for two will be enuff.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t talk to him,\'94 Brett said. \'93Mike must have been in bad shape,\'94 she\
said on the stairs. We passed Montoya on the stairs. He bowed and did\
not smile.\
\
\'93I\'92ll see you at the caf\'e9,\'94 Brett said. \'93Thank you, so much, Jake.\'94\
\
We had stopped at the floor our rooms were on. She went straight down\
the hall and into Romero\'92s room. She did not knock. She simply opened\
the door, went in, and closed it behind her.\
\
I stood in front of the door of Mike\'92s room and knocked. There was no\
answer. I tried the knob and it opened. Inside the room was in great\
disorder. All the bags were opened and clothing was strewn around. There\
were empty bottles beside the bed. Mike lay on the bed looking like a\
death mask of himself. He opened his eyes and looked at me.\
\
\'93Hello, Jake,\'94 he said very slowly. \'93I\'92m getting a lit tle sleep. I\'92ve\
want ed a lit tle sleep for a long time.\'94\
\
\'93Let me cover you over.\'94\
\
\'93No. I\'92m quite warm.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t go. I have n\'92t got ten to sleep yet.\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll sleep, Mike. Don\'92t worry, boy.\'94\
\
\'93Brett\'92s got a bull-fighter,\'94 Mike said. \'93But her Jew has gone away.\'94\
\
He turned his head and looked at me.\
\
\'93Damned good thing, what?\'94\
\
\'93Yes. Now go to sleep, Mike. You ought to get some sleep.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m just start ing. I\'92m go ing to get a lit tle sleep.\'94\
\
He shut his eyes. I went out of the room and turned the door to quietly.\
Bill was in my room reading the paper.\
\
\'93See Mike?\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go and eat.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t eat down-stairs with that German head waiter. He was damned\
snotty when I was getting Mike up-stairs.\'94\
\
\'93He was snotty to us, too.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go out and eat in the town.\'94\
\
We went down the stairs. On the stairs we passed a girl coming up with a\
covered tray.\
\
\'93There goes Brett\'92s lunch,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93And the kid\'92s,\'94 I said.\
\
Outside on the terrace under the arcade the German head waiter came up.\
His red cheeks were shiny. He was being polite.\
\
\'93I haff a tabul for two for you gentlemen,\'94 he said.\
\
\'93Go sit at it,\'94 Bill said. We went on out across the street.\
\
We ate at a restaurant in a side street off the square. They were all\
men eating in the restaurant. It was full of smoke and drinking and\
singing. The food was good and so was the wine. We did not talk much.\
Afterward we went to the caf\'e9 and watched the fiesta come to the\
boiling-point. Brett came over soon after lunch. She said she had looked\
in the room and that Mike was asleep.\
\
When the fiesta boiled over and toward the bull-ring we went with the\
crowd. Brett sat at the ringside between Bill and me. Directly below us\
was the callejon, the passageway between the stands and the red fence of\
the barrera. Behind us the concrete stands filled solidly. Out in front,\
beyond the red fence, the sand of the ring was smooth-rolled and yellow.\
It looked a little heavy from the rain, but it was dry in the sun and\
firm and smooth. The sword-handlers and bull-ring servants came down the\
callejon carrying on their shoulders the wicker baskets of fighting\
capes and muletas. They were bloodstained and compactly folded and\
packed in the baskets. The sword-handlers opened the heavy leather\
sword-cases so the red wrapped hilts of the sheaf of swords showed as\
the leather case leaned against the fence. They unfolded the\
dark-stained red flannel of the muletas and fixed batons in them to\
spread the stuff and give the matador something to hold. Brett watched\
it all. She was absorbed in the professional details.\
\
\'93He\'92s his name stencilled on all the capes and muletas,\'94 she said. \'93Why\
do they call them muletas?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
\'93I wonder if they ever launder them.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t think so. It might spoil the color.\'94\
\
\'93The blood must stiffen them,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93Funny,\'94 Brett said. \'93How one doesn\'92t mind the blood.\'94\
\
Below in the narrow passage of the callejon the sword-handlers arranged\
everything. All the seats were full. Above, all the boxes were full.\
There was not an empty seat except in the President\'92s box. When he came\
in the fight would start. Across the smooth sand, in the high doorway\
that led into the corrals, the bull-fighters were standing, their arms\
furled in their capes, talking, waiting for the signal to march in\
across the arena. Brett was watching them with the glasses.\
\
\'93Here, would you like to look?\'94\
\
I looked through the glasses and saw the three matadors. Romero was in\
the centre, Belmonte on his left, Marcial on his right. Back of them\
were their people, and behind the banderilleros, back in the passageway\
and in the open space of the corral, I saw the picadors. Romero was\
wearing a black suit. His tricornered hat was low down over his eyes. I\
could not see his face clearly under the hat, but it looked badly\
marked. He was looking straight ahead. Marcial was smoking a cigarette\
guardedly, holding it in his hand. Belmonte looked ahead, his face wan\
and yellow, his long wolf jaw out. He was looking at nothing. Neither he\
nor Romero seemed to have anything in common with the others. They were\
all alone. The President came in; there was handclapping above us in the\
grand stand, and I handed the glasses to Brett. There was applause. The\
music started. Brett looked through the glasses.\
\
\'93Here, take them,\'94 she said.\
\
Through the glasses I saw Belmonte speak to Romero. Marcial straightened\
up and dropped his cigarette, and, looking straight ahead, their heads\
back, their free arms swinging, the three matadors walked out. Behind\
them came all the procession, opening out, all striding in step, all the\
capes furled, everybody with free arms swinging, and behind rode the\
picadors, their pics rising like lances. Behind all came the two trains\
of mules and the bull-ring servants. The matadors bowed, holding their\
hats on, before the President\'92s box, and then came over to the barrera\
below us. Pedro Romero took off his heavy gold-brocaded cape and handed\
it over the fence to his sword-handler. He said something to the\
sword-handler. Close below us we saw Romero\'92s lips were puffed, both\
eyes were discolored. His face was discolored and swollen. The\
sword-handler took the cape, looked up at Brett, and came over to us and\
handed up the cape.\
\
\'93Spread it out in front of you,\'94 I said.\
\
Brett leaned forward. The cape was heavy and smoothly stiff with gold.\
The sword-handler looked back, shook his head, and said something. A man\
beside me leaned over toward Brett.\
\
\'93He doesn\'92t want you to spread it,\'94 he said. \'93You should fold it and\
keep it in your lap.\'94\
\
Brett folded the heavy cape.\
\
Romero did not look up at us. He was speaking to Belmonte. Belmonte had\
sent his formal cape over to some friends. He looked across at them and\
smiled, his wolf smile that was only with the mouth. Romero leaned over\
the barrera and asked for the water-jug. The sword-handler brought it\
and Romero poured water over the percale of his fighting-cape, and then\
scuffed the lower folds in the sand with his slippered foot.\
\
\'93What\'92s that for?\'94 Brett asked.\
\
\'93To give it weight in the wind.\'94\
\
\'93His face looks bad,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93He feels very badly,\'94 Brett said. \'93He should be in bed.\'94\
\
The first bull was Belmonte\'92s. Belmonte was very good. But because he\
got thirty thousand pesetas and people had stayed in line all night to\
buy tickets to see him, the crowd demanded that he should be more than\
very good. Belmonte\'92s great attraction is working close to the bull. In\
bull-fighting they speak of the terrain of the bull and the terrain of\
the bull-fighter. As long as a bull-fighter stays in his own terrain he\
is comparatively safe. Each time he enters into the terrain of the bull\
he is in great danger. Belmonte, in his best days, worked always in the\
terrain of the bull. This way he gave the sensation of coming tragedy.\
People went to the corrida to see Belmonte, to be given tragic\
sensations, and perhaps to see the death of Belmonte. Fifteen years ago\
they said if you wanted to see Belmonte you should go quickly, while he\
was still alive. Since then he has killed more than a thousand bulls.\
When he retired the legend grew up about how his bull-fighting had been,\
and when he came out of retirement the public were disappointed because\
no real man could work as close to the bulls as Belmonte was supposed to\
have done, not, of course, even Belmonte.\
\
Also Belmonte imposed conditions and insisted that his bulls should not\
be too large, nor too dangerously armed with horns, and so the element\
that was necessary to give the sensation of tragedy was not there, and\
the public, who wanted three times as much from Belmonte, who was sick\
with a fistula, as Belmonte had ever been able to give, felt defrauded\
and cheated, and Belmonte\'92s jaw came further out in contempt, and his\
face turned yellower, and he moved with greater difficulty as his pain\
increased, and finally the crowd were actively against him, and he was\
utterly contemptuous and indifferent. He had meant to have a great\
afternoon, and instead it was an afternoon of sneers, shouted insults,\
and finally a volley of cushions and pieces of bread and vegetables,\
thrown down at him in the plaza where he had had his greatest triumphs.\
His jaw only went further out. Sometimes he turned to smile that\
toothed, long-jawed, lipless smile when he was called something\
particularly insulting, and always the pain that any movement produced\
grew stronger and stronger, until finally his yellow face was parchment\
color, and after his second bull was dead and the throwing of bread and\
cushions was over, after he had saluted the President with the same\
wolf-jawed smile and contemptuous eyes, and handed his sword over the\
barrera to be wiped, and put back in its case, he passed through into\
the callejon and leaned on the barrera below us, his head on his arms,\
not seeing, not hearing anything, only going through his pain. When he\
looked up, finally, he asked for a drink of water. He swallowed a\
little, rinsed his mouth, spat the water, took his cape, and went back\
into the ring.\
\
Because they were against Belmonte the public were for Romero. From the\
moment he left the barrera and went toward the bull they applauded him.\
Belmonte watched Romero, too, watched him always without seeming to. He\
paid no attention to Marcial. Marcial was the sort of thing he knew all\
about. He had come out of retirement to compete with Marcial, knowing it\
was a competition gained in advance. He had expected to compete with\
Marcial and the other stars of the decadence of bull-fighting, and he\
knew that the sincerity of his own bull-fighting would be so set off by\
the false \'e6sthetics of the bull-fighters of the decadent period that he\
would only have to be in the ring. His return from retirement had been\
spoiled by Romero. Romero did always, smoothly, calmly, and beautifully,\
what he, Belmonte, could only bring himself to do now sometimes. The\
crowd felt it, even the people from Biarritz, even the American\
ambassador saw it, finally. It was a competition that Belmonte would not\
enter because it would lead only to a bad horn wound or death. Belmonte\
was no longer well enough. He no longer had his greatest moments in the\
bull-ring. He was not sure that there were any great moments. Things\
were not the same and now life only came in flashes. He had flashes of\
the old greatness with his bulls, but they were not of value because he\
had discounted them in advance when he had picked the bulls out for\
their safety, getting out of a motor and leaning on a fence, looking\
over at the herd on the ranch of his friend the bull-breeder. So he had\
two small, manageable bulls without much horns, and when he felt the\
greatness again coming, just a little of it through the pain that was\
always with him, it had been discounted and sold in advance, and it did\
not give him a good feeling. It was the greatness, but it did not make\
bull-fighting wonderful to him any more.\
\
Pedro Romero had the greatness. He loved bull-fighting, and I think he\
loved the bulls, and I think he loved Brett. Everything of which he\
could control the locality he did in front of her all that afternoon.\
Never once did he look up. He made it stronger that way, and did it for\
himself, too, as well as for her. Because he did not look up to ask if\
it pleased he did it all for himself inside, and it strengthened him,\
and yet he did it for her, too. But he did not do it for her at any loss\
to himself. He gained by it all through the afternoon.\
\
His first \'93quite\'94 was directly below us. The three matadors take the\
bull in turn after each charge he makes at a picador. Belmonte was the\
first. Marcial was the second. Then came Romero. The three of them were\
standing at the left of the horse. The picador, his hat down over his\
eyes, the shaft of his pic angling sharply toward the bull, kicked in\
the spurs and held them and with the reins in his left hand walked the\
horse forward toward the bull. The bull was watching. Seemingly he\
watched the white horse, but really he watched the triangular steel\
point of the pic. Romero, watching, saw the bull start to turn his head.\
He did not want to charge. Romero flicked his cape so the color caught\
the bull\'92s eye. The bull charged with the reflex, charged, and found not\
the flash of color but a white horse, and a man leaned far over the\
horse, shot the steel point of the long hickory shaft into the hump of\
muscle on the bull\'92s shoulder, and pulled his horse sideways as he\
pivoted on the pic, making a wound, enforcing the iron into the bull\'92s\
shoulder, making him bleed for Belmonte.\
\
The bull did not insist under the iron. He did not really want to get at\
the horse. He turned and the group broke apart and Romero was taking him\
out with his cape. He took him out softly and smoothly, and then stopped\
and, standing squarely in front of the bull, offered him the cape. The\
bull\'92s tail went up and he charged, and Romero moved his arms ahead of\
the bull, wheeling, his feet firmed. The dampened, mud-weighted cape\
swung open and full as a sail fills, and Romero pivoted with it just\
ahead of the bull. At the end of the pass they were facing each other\
again. Romero smiled. The bull wanted it again, and Romero\'92s cape filled\
again, this time on the other side. Each time he let the bull pass so\
close that the man and the bull and the cape that filled and pivoted\
ahead of the bull were all one sharply etched mass. It was all so slow\
and so controlled. It was as though he were rocking the bull to sleep.\
He made four veronicas like that, and finished with a half-veronica that\
turned his back on the bull and came away toward the applause, his hand\
on his hip, his cape on his arm, and the bull watching his back going\
away.\
\
In his own bulls he was perfect. His first bull did not see well. After\
the first two passes with the cape Romero knew exactly how bad the\
vision was impaired. He worked accordingly. It was not brilliant\
bull-fighting. It was only perfect bull-fighting. The crowd wanted the\
bull changed. They made a great row. Nothing very fine could happen with\
a bull that could not see the lures, but the President would not order\
him replaced.\
\
\'93Why don\'92t they change him?\'94 Brett asked.\
\
\'93They\'92ve paid for him. They don\'92t want to lose their money.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s hardly fair to Romero.\'94\
\
\'93Watch how he handles a bull that can\'92t see the color.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s the sort of thing I don\'92t like to see.\'94\
\
It was not nice to watch if you cared anything about the person who was\
doing it. With the bull who could not see the colors of the capes, or\
the scarlet flannel of the muleta, Romero had to make the bull consent\
with his body. He had to get so close that the bull saw his body, and\
would start for it, and then shift the bull\'92s charge to the flannel and\
finish out the pass in the classic manner. The Biarritz crowd did not\
like it They thought Romero was afraid, and that was why he gave that\
little sidestep each time as he transferred the bull\'92s charge from his\
own body to the flannel. They preferred Belmonte\'92s imitation of himself\
or Marcial\'92s imitation of Belmonte. There were three of them in the row\
behind us.\
\
\'93What\'92s he afraid of the bull for? The bull\'92s so dumb he only goes after\
the cloth.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s just a young bull-fighter. He hasn\'92t learned it yet.\'94\
\
\'93But I thought he was fine with the cape before.\'94\
\
\'93Probably he\'92s nervous now.\'94\
\
Out in the centre of the ring, all alone, Romero was going on with the\
same thing, getting so close that the bull could see him plainly,\
offering the body, offering it again a little closer, the bull watching\
dully, then so close that the bull thought he had him, offering again\
and finally drawing the charge and then, just before the horns came,\
giving the bull the red cloth to follow with at little, almost\
imperceptible, jerk that so offended the critical judgment of the\
Biarritz bull-fight experts.\
\
\'93He\'92s going to kill now,\'94 I said to Brett. \'93The bull\'92s still strong. He\
wouldn\'92t wear himself out.\'94\
\
Out in the centre of the ring Romero profiled in front of the bull, drew\
the sword out from the folds of the muleta, rose on his toes, and\
sighted along the blade. The bull charged as Romero charged. Romero\'92s\
left hand dropped the muleta over the bull\'92s muzzle to blind him, his\
left shoulder went forward between the horns as the sword went in, and\
for just an instant he and the bull were one, Romero way out over the\
bull, the right arm extended high up to where the hilt of the sword had\
gone in between the bull\'92s shoulders. Then the figure was broken. There\
was a little jolt as Romero came clear, and then he was standing, one\
hand up, facing the bull, his shirt ripped out from under his sleeve,\
the white blowing in the wind, and the bull, the red sword hilt tight\
between his shoulders, his head going down and his legs settling.\
\
\'93There he goes,\'94 Bill said.\
\
Romero was close enough so the bull could see him. His hand still up, he\
spoke to the bull. The bull gathered himself, then his head went forward\
and he went over slowly, then all over, suddenly, four feet in the air.\
\
They handed the sword to Romero, and carrying it blade down, the muleta\
in his other hand, he walked over to in front of the President\'92s box,\
bowed, straightened, and came over to the barrera and handed over the\
sword and muleta.\
\
\'93Bad one,\'94 said the sword-handler.\
\
\'93He made me sweat,\'94 said Romero. He wiped off his face. The\
sword-handler handed him the water-jug. Romero wiped his lips. It hurt\
him to drink out of the jug. He did not look up at us.\
\
Marcial had a big day. They were still applauding him when Romero\'92s last\
bull came in. It was the bull that had sprinted out and killed the man\
in the morning running.\
\
During Romero\'92s first bull his hurt face had been very noticeable.\
Everything he did showed it. All the concentration of the awkwardly\
delicate working with the bull that could not see well brought it out.\
The fight with Cohn had not touched his spirit but his face had been\
smashed and his body hurt. He was wiping all that out now. Each thing\
that he did with this bull wiped that out a little cleaner. It was a\
good bull, a big bull, and with horns, and it turned and recharged\
easily and surely. He was what Romero wanted in bulls.\
\
When he had finished his work with the muleta and was ready to kill, the\
crowd made him go on. They did not want the bull killed yet, they did\
not want it to be over. Romero went on. It was like a course in\
bull-fighting. All the passes he linked up, all completed, all slow,\
templed and smooth. There were no tricks and no mystifications. There\
was no brusqueness. And each pass as it reached the summit gave you a\
sudden ache inside. The crowd did not want it ever to be finished.\
\
The bull was squared on all four feet to be killed, and Romero killed\
directly below us. He killed not as he had been forced to by the last\
bull, but as he wanted to. He profiled directly in front of the bull,\
drew the sword out of the folds of the muleta and sighted along the\
blade. The bull watched him. Romero spoke to the bull and tapped one of\
his feet. The bull charged and Romero waited for the charge, the muleta\
held low, sighting along the blade, his feet firm. Then without taking a\
step forward, he became one with the bull, the sword was in high between\
the shoulders, the bull had followed the low-swung flannel, that\
disappeared as Romero lurched clear to the left, and it was over. The\
bull tried to go forward, his legs commenced to settle, he swung from\
side to side, hesitated, then went down on his knees, and Romero\'92s older\
brother leaned forward behind him and drove a short knife into the\
bull\'92s neck at the base of the horns. The first time he missed. He drove\
the knife in again, and the bull went over, twitching and rigid.\
Romero\'92s brother, holding the bull\'92s horn in one hand, the knife in the\
other, looked up at the President\'92s box. Handkerchiefs were waving all\
over the bull-ring. The President looked down from the box and waved his\
handkerchief. The brother cut the notched black ear from the dead bull\
and trotted over with it to Romero. The bull lay heavy and black on the\
sand, his tongue out. Boys were running toward him from all parts of the\
arena, making a little circle around him. They were starting to dance\
around the bull.\
\
Romero took the ear from his brother and held it up toward the\
President. The President bowed and Romero, running to get ahead of the\
crowd, came toward us. He leaned up against the barrera and gave the ear\
to Brett. He nodded his head and smiled. The crowd were all about him.\
Brett held down the cape.\
\
\'93You liked it?\'94 Romero called.\
\
Brett did not say anything. They looked at each other and smiled. Brett\
had the ear in her hand.\
\
\'93Don\'92t get bloody,\'94 Romero said, and grinned. The crowd wanted him.\
Several boys shouted at Brett. The crowd was the boys, the dancers, and\
the drunks. Romero turned and tried to get through the crowd. They were\
all around him trying to lift him and put him on their shoulders. He\
fought and twisted away, and started running, in the midst of them,\
toward the exit. He did not want to be carried on people\'92s shoulders.\
But they held him and lifted him. It was uncomfortable and his legs were\
spraddled and his body was very sore. They were lifting him and all\
running toward the gate. He had his hand on somebody\'92s shoulder. He\
looked around at us apologetically. The crowd, running, went out the\
gate with him.\
\
We all three went back to the hotel. Brett went up-stairs. Bill and I\
sat in the down-stairs dining-room and ate some hard-boiled eggs and\
drank several bottles of beer. Belmonte came down in his street clothes\
with his manager and two other men. They sat at the next table and ate.\
Belmonte ate very little. They were leaving on the seven o\'92clock train\
for Barcelona. Belmonte wore a blue-striped shirt and a dark suit, and\
ate soft-boiled eggs. The others ate a big meal. Belmonte did not talk.\
He only answered questions.\
\
Bill was tired after the bull-fight. So was I. We both took a bull-fight\
very hard. We sat and ate the eggs and I watched Belmonte and the people\
at his table. The men with him were tough-looking and businesslike.\
\
\'93Come on over to the caf\'e9,\'94 Bill said. \'93I want an absinthe.\'94\
\
It was the last day of the fiesta. Outside it was beginning to be cloudy\
again. The square was full of people and the fireworks experts were\
making up their set pieces for the night and covering them over with\
beech branches. Boys were watching. We passed stands of rockets with\
long bamboo stems. Outside the caf\'e9 there was a great crowd. The music\
and the dancing were going on. The giants and the dwarfs were passing.\
\
\'93Where\'92s Edna?\'94 I asked Bill.\
\
\'93I don\'92t know.\'94\
\
We watched the beginning of the evening of the last night of the fiesta.\
The absinthe made everything seem better. I drank it without sugar in\
the dripping glass, and it was pleasantly bitter.\
\
\'93I feel sorry about Cohn,\'94 Bill said. \'93He had an awful time.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, to hell with Cohn,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Where do you suppose he went?\'94\
\
\'93Up to Paris.\'94\
\
\'93What do you suppose he\'92ll do?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, to hell with him.\'94\
\
\'93What do you suppose he\'92ll do?\'94\
\
\'93Pick up with his old girl, probably.\'94\
\
\'93Who was his old girl?\'94\
\
\'93Somebody named Frances.\'94\
\
We had another absinthe.\
\
\'93When do you go back?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93To-morrow.\'94\
\
After a little while Bill said: \'93Well, it was a swell fiesta.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said; \'93something doing all the time.\'94\
\
\'93You wouldn\'92t believe it. It\'92s like a wonderful nightmare.\'94\
\
\'93Sure,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92d believe anything. Including nightmares.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter? Feel low?\'94\
\
\'93Low as hell.\'94\
\
\'93Have another absinthe. Here, waiter! Another absinthe for this se\'f1or.\'94\
\
\'93I feel like hell,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Drink that,\'94 said Bill. \'93Drink it slow.\'94\
\
It was beginning to get dark. The fiesta was going on. I began to feel\
drunk but I did not feel any better.\
\
\'93How do you feel?\'94\
\
\'93I feel like hell.\'94\
\
\'93Have another?\'94\
\
\'93It won\'92t do any good.\'94\
\
\'93Try it. You can\'92t tell; maybe this is the one that gets it. Hey,\
waiter! Another absinthe for this se\'f1or!\'94\
\
I poured the water directly into it and stirred it instead of letting it\
drip. Bill put in a lump of ice. I stirred the ice around with a spoon\
in the brownish, cloudy mixture.\
\
\'93How is it?\'94\
\
\'93Fine.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t drink it fast that way. It will make you sick.\'94\
\
I set down the glass. I had not meant to drink it fast.\
\
\'93I feel tight.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to.\'94\
\
\'93That\'92s what you wanted, wasn\'92t it?\'94\
\
\'93Sure. Get tight. Get over your damn depression.\'94\
\
\'93Well, I\'92m tight. Is that what you want?\'94\
\
\'93Sit down.\'94\
\
\'93I won\'92t sit down,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m going over to the hotel.\'94\
\
I was very drunk. I was drunker than I ever remembered having been. At\
the hotel I went up-stairs. Brett\'92s door was open. I put my head in the\
room. Mike was sitting on the bed. He waved a bottle.\
\
\'93Jake,\'94 he said. \'93Come in, Jake.\'94\
\
I went in and sat down. The room was unstable unless I looked at some\
fixed point.\
\
\'93Brett, you know. She\'92s gone off with the bull-fighter chap.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. She looked for you to say good-bye. They went on the seven o\'92clock\
train.\'94\
\
\'93Did they?\'94\
\
\'93Bad thing to do,\'94 Mike said. \'93She shouldn\'92t have done it.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Have a drink? Wait while I ring for some beer.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m drunk,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m going in and lie down.\'94\
\
\'93Are you blind? I was blind myself.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said, \'93I\'92m blind.\'94\
\
\'93Well, bung-o,\'94 Mike said. \'93Get some sleep, old Jake.\'94\
\
I went out the door and into my own room and lay on the bed. The bed\
went sailing off and I sat up in bed and looked at the wall to make it\
stop. Outside in the square the fiesta was going on. It did not mean\
anything. Later Bill and Mike came in to get me to go down and eat with\
them. I pretended to be asleep.\
\
\'93He\'92s asleep. Better let him alone.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s blind as a tick,\'94 Mike said. They went out.\
\
I got up and went to the balcony and looked out at the dancing in the\
square. The world was not wheeling any more. It was just very clear and\
bright, and inclined to blur at the edges. I washed, brushed my hair. I\
looked strange to myself in the glass, and went down-stairs to the\
dining-room.\
\
\'93Here he is!\'94 said Bill. \'93Good old Jake! I knew you wouldn\'92t pass out.\'94\
\
\'93Hello, you old drunk,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93I got hungry and woke up.\'94\
\
\'93Eat some soup,\'94 Bill said.\
\
The three of us sat at the table, and it seemed as though about six\
people were missing.\
\
\
\
\
                                BOOK III\
\
\
\
\
                                CHAPTER\
                                   19\
\
\
In the morning it was all over. The fiesta was finished. I woke about\
nine o\'92clock, had a bath, dressed, and went down-stairs. The square was\
empty and there were no people on the streets. A few children were\
picking up rocket-sticks in the square. The caf\'e9s were just opening and\
the waiters were carrying out the comfortable white wicker chairs and\
arranging them around the marble-topped tables in the shade of the\
arcade. They were sweeping the streets and sprinkling them with a hose.\
\
I sat in one of the wicker chairs and leaned back comfortably. The\
waiter was in no hurry to come. The white-paper announcements of the\
unloading of the bulls and the big schedules of special trains were\
still up on the pillars of the arcade. A waiter wearing a blue apron\
came out with a bucket of water and a cloth, and commenced to tear down\
the notices, pulling the paper off in strips and washing and rubbing\
away the paper that stuck to the stone. The fiesta was over.\
\
I drank a coffee and after a while Bill came over. I watched him come\
walking across the square. He sat down at the table and ordered a\
coffee.\
\
\'93Well,\'94 he said, \'93it\'92s all over.\'94\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93When do you go?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. We better get a car, I think. Aren\'92t you going back to\
Paris?\'94\
\
\'93No. I can stay away another week. I think I\'92ll go to San Sebastian.\'94\
\
\'93I want to get back.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s Mike going to do?\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s going to Saint Jean de Luz.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s get a car and all go as far as Bayonne. You can get the train up\
from there to-night.\'94\
\
\'93Good. Let\'92s go after lunch.\'94\
\
\'93All right. I\'92ll get the car.\'94\
\
We had lunch and paid the bill. Montoya did not come near us. One of the\
maids brought the bill. The car was outside. The chauffeur piled and\
strapped the bags on top of the car and put them in beside him in the\
front seat and we got in. The car went out of the square, along through\
the side streets, out under the trees and down the hill and away from\
Pamplona. It did not seem like a very long ride. Mike had a bottle of\
Fundador. I only took a couple of drinks. We came over the mountains and\
out of Spain and down the white roads and through the overfoliaged, wet,\
green, Basque country, and finally into Bayonne. We left Bill\'92s baggage\
at the station, and he bought a ticket to Paris. His train left at\
seven-ten. We came out of the station. The car was standing out in\
front.\
\
\'93What shall we do about the car?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93Oh, bother the car,\'94 Mike said. \'93Let\'92s just keep the car with us.\'94\
\
\'93All right,\'94 Bill said. \'93Where shall we go?\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s go to Biarritz and have a drink.\'94\
\
\'93Old Mike the spender,\'94 Bill said.\
\
We drove in to Biarritz and left the car outside a very Ritz place. We\
went into the bar and sat on high stools and drank a whiskey and soda.\
\
\'93That drink\'92s mine,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93Let\'92s roll for it.\'94\
\
So we rolled poker dice out of a deep leather dice-cup. Bill was out\
first roll. Mike lost to me and handed the bartender a hundred-franc\
note. The whiskeys were twelve francs apiece. We had another round and\
Mike lost again. Each time he gave the bartender a good tip. In a room\
off the bar there was a good jazz band playing. It was a pleasant bar.\
We had another round. I went out on the first roll with four kings. Bill\
and Mike rolled. Mike won the first roll with four jacks. Bill won the\
second. On the final roll Mike had three kings and let them stay. He\
handed the dice-cup to Bill. Bill rattled them and rolled, and there\
were three kings, an ace, and a queen.\
\
\'93It\'92s yours, Mike,\'94 Bill said. \'93Old Mike, the gambler.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m so sorry,\'94 Mike said. \'93I can\'92t get it.\'94\
\
\'93What\'92s the matter?\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ve no money,\'94 Mike said. \'93I\'92m stony. I\'92ve just twenty francs. Here,\
take twenty francs.\'94\
\
Bill\'92s face sort of changed.\
\
\'93I just had enough to pay Montoya. Damned lucky to have it, too.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll cash you a check,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93That\'92s damned nice of you, but you see I can\'92t write checks.\'94\
\
\'93What are you going to do for money?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, some will come through. I\'92ve two weeks allowance should be here. I\
can live on tick at this pub in Saint Jean.\'94\
\
\'93What do you want to do about the car?\'94 Bill asked me. \'93Do you want to\
keep it on?\'94\
\
\'93It doesn\'92t make any difference. Seems sort of idiotic.\'94\
\
\'93Come on, let\'92s have another drink,\'94 Mike said.\
\
\'93Fine. This one is on me,\'94 Bill said. \'93Has Brett any money?\'94 He turned\
to Mike.\
\
\'93I shouldn\'92t think so. She put up most of what I gave to old Montoya.\'94\
\
\'93She hasn\'92t any money with her?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93I shouldn\'92t think so. She never has any money. She gets five hundred\
quid a year and pays three hundred and fifty of it in interest to Jews.\'94\
\
\'93I suppose they get it at the source,\'94 said Bill.\
\
\'93Quite. They\'92re not really Jews. We just call them Jews. They\'92re\
Scotsmen, I believe.\'94\
\
\'93Hasn\'92t she any at all with her?\'94 I asked.\
\
\'93I hardly think so. She gave it all to me when she left.\'94\
\
\'93Well,\'94 Bill said, \'93we might as well have another drink.\'94\
\
\'93Damned good idea,\'94 Mike said. \'93One never gets anywhere by discussing\
finances.\'94\
\
\'93No,\'94 said Bill. Bill and I rolled for the next two rounds. Bill lost\
and paid. We went out to the car.\
\
\'93Anywhere you\'92d like to go, Mike?\'94 Bill asked.\
\
\'93Let\'92s take a drive. It might do my credit good. Let\'92s drive about a\
little.\'94\
\
\'93Fine. I\'92d like to see the coast. Let\'92s drive down toward Hendaye.\'94\
\
\'93I haven\'92t any credit along the coast.\'94\
\
\'93You can\'92t ever tell,\'94 said Bill.\
\
We drove out along the coast road. There was the green of the headlands,\
the white, red-roofed villas, patches of forest, and the ocean very blue\
with the tide out and the water curling far out along the beach. We\
drove through Saint Jean de Luz and passed through villages farther down\
the coast. Back of the rolling country we were going through we saw the\
mountains we had come over from Pamplona. The road went on ahead. Bill\
looked at his watch. It was time for us to go back. He knocked on the\
glass and told the driver to turn around. The driver backed the car out\
into the grass to turn it. In back of us were the woods, below a stretch\
of meadow, then the sea.\
\
At the hotel where Mike was going to stay in Saint Jean we stopped the\
car and he got out. The chauffeur carried in his bags. Mike stood by the\
side of the car.\
\
\'93Good-bye, you chaps,\'94 Mike said. \'93It was a damned fine fiesta.\'94\
\
\'93So long, Mike,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93I\'92ll see you around,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Don\'92t worry about money,\'94 Mike said. \'93You can pay for the car, Jake,\
and I\'92ll send you my share.\'94\
\
\'93So long, Mike.\'94\
\
\'93So long, you chaps. You\'92ve been damned nice.\'94\
\
We all shook hands. We waved from the car to Mike. He stood in the road\
watching. We got to Bayonne just before the train left. A porter carried\
Bill\'92s bags in from the consigne. I went as far as the inner gate to the\
tracks.\
\
\'93So long, fella,\'94 Bill said.\
\
\'93So long, kid!\'94\
\
\'93It was swell. I\'92ve had a swell time.\'94\
\
\'93Will you be in Paris?\'94\
\
\'93No, I have to sail on the 17th. So long, fella!\'94\
\
\'93So long, old kid!\'94\
\
He went in through the gate to the train. The porter went ahead with the\
bags. I watched the train pull out. Bill was at one of the windows. The\
window passed, the rest of the train passed, and the tracks were empty.\
I went outside to the car.\
\
\'93How much do we owe you?\'94 I asked the driver. The price to Bayonne had\
been fixed at a hundred and fifty pesetas.\
\
\'93Two hundred pesetas.\'94\
\
\'93How much more will it be if you drive me to San Sebastian on your way\
back?\'94\
\
\'93Fifty pesetas.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t kid me.\'94\
\
\'93Thirty-five pesetas.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s not worth it,\'94 I said. \'93Drive me to the Hotel Panier Fleuri.\'94\
\
At the hotel I paid the driver and gave him a tip. The car was powdered\
with dust. I rubbed the rod-case through the dust. It seemed the last\
thing that connected me with Spain and the fiesta. The driver put the\
car in gear and went down the street. I watched it turn off to take the\
road to Spain. I went into the hotel and they gave me a room. It was the\
same room I had slept in when Bill and Cohn and I were in Bayonne. That\
seemed a very long time ago. I washed, changed my shirt, and went out in\
the town.\
\
At a newspaper kiosque I bought a copy of the New York _Herald_ and sat\
in a caf\'e9 to read it. It felt strange to be in France again. There was a\
safe, suburban feeling. I wished I had gone up to Paris with Bill,\
except that Paris would have meant more fiesta-ing. I was through with\
fiestas for a while. It would be quiet in San Sebastian. The season does\
not open there until August. I could get a good hotel room and read and\
swim. There was a fine beach there. There were wonderful trees along the\
promenade above the beach, and there were many children sent down with\
their nurses before the season opened. In the evening there would be\
band concerts under the trees across from the Caf\'e9 Marinas. I could sit\
in the Marinas and listen.\
\
\'93How does one eat inside?\'94 I asked the waiter. Inside the caf\'e9 was a\
restaurant.\
\
\'93Well. Very well. One eats very well.\'94\
\
\'93Good.\'94\
\
I went in and ate dinner. It was a big meal for France but it seemed\
very carefully apportioned after Spain. I drank a bottle of wine for\
company. It was a Ch\'e2teau Margaux. It was pleasant to be drinking slowly\
and to be tasting the wine and to be drinking alone. A bottle of wine\
was good company. Afterward I had coffee. The waiter recommended a\
Basque liqueur called Izzarra. He brought in the bottle and poured a\
liqueur-glass full. He said Izzarra was made of the flowers of the\
Pyrenees. The veritable flowers of the Pyrenees. It looked like hair-oil\
and smelled like Italian _strega_. I told him to take the flowers of the\
Pyrenees away and bring me a _vieux marc_. The _marc_ was good. I had a\
second _marc_ after the coffee.\
\
The waiter seemed a little offended about the flowers of the Pyrenees,\
so I overtipped him. That made him happy. It felt comfortable to be in a\
country where it is so simple to make people happy. You can never tell\
whether a Spanish waiter will thank you. Everything is on such a clear\
financial basis in France. It is the simplest country to live in. No one\
makes things complicated by becoming your friend for any obscure reason.\
If you want people to like you you have only to spend a little money. I\
spent a little money and the waiter liked me. He appreciated my valuable\
qualities. He would be glad to see me back. I would dine there again\
some time and he would be glad to see me, and would want me at his\
table. It would be a sincere liking because it would have a sound basis.\
I was back in France.\
\
Next morning I tipped every one a little too much at the hotel to make\
more friends, and left on the morning train for San Sebastian. At the\
station I did not tip the porter more than I should because I did not\
think I would ever see him again. I only wanted a few good French\
friends in Bayonne to make me welcome in case I should come back there\
again. I knew that if they remembered me their friendship would be\
loyal.\
\
At Irun we had to change trains and show passports. I hated to leave\
France. Life was so simple in France. I felt I was a fool to be going\
back into Spain. In Spain you could not tell about anything. I felt like\
a fool to be going back into it, but I stood in line with my passport,\
opened my bags for the customs, bought a ticket, went through a gate,\
climbed onto the train, and after forty minutes and eight tunnels I was\
at San Sebastian.\
\
Even on a hot day San Sebastian has a certain early-morning quality. The\
trees seem as though their leaves were never quite dry. The streets feel\
as though they had just been sprinkled. It is always cool and shady on\
certain streets on the hottest day. I went to a hotel in the town where\
I had stopped before, and they gave me a room with a balcony that opened\
out above the roofs of the town. There was a green mountainside beyond\
the roofs.\
\
I unpacked my bags and stacked my books on the table beside the head of\
the bed, put out my shaving things, hung up some clothes in the big\
armoire, and made up a bundle for the laundry. Then I took a shower in\
the bathroom and went down to lunch. Spain had not changed to\
summer-time, so I was early. I set my watch again. I had recovered an\
hour by coming to San Sebastian.\
\
As I went into the dining-room the concierge brought me a police\
bulletin to fill out. I signed it and asked him for two telegraph forms,\
and wrote a message to the Hotel Montoya, telling them to forward all\
mail and telegrams for me to this address. I calculated how many days I\
would be in San Sebastian and then wrote out a wire to the office asking\
them to hold mail, but forward all wires for me to San Sebastian for six\
days. Then I went in and had lunch.\
\
After lunch I went up to my room, read a while, and went to sleep. When\
I woke it was half past four. I found my swimming-suit, wrapped it with\
a comb in a towel, and went down-stairs and walked up the street to the\
Concha. The tide was about half-way out. The beach was smooth and firm,\
and the sand yellow. I went into a bathing-cabin, undressed, put on my\
suit, and walked across the smooth sand to the sea. The sand was warm\
under bare feet. There were quite a few people in the water and on the\
beach. Out beyond where the headlands of the Concha almost met to form\
the harbor there was a white line of breakers and the open sea. Although\
the tide was going out, there were a few slow rollers. They came in like\
undulations in the water, gathered weight of water, and then broke\
smoothly on the warm sand. I waded out. The water was cold. As a roller\
came I dove, swam out under water, and came to the surface with all the\
chill gone. I swam out to the raft, pulled myself up, and lay on the hot\
planks. A boy and girl were at the other end. The girl had undone the\
top strap of her bathing-suit and was browning her back. The boy lay\
face downward on the raft and talked to her. She laughed at things he\
said, and turned her brown back in the sun. I lay on the raft in the sun\
until I was dry. Then I tried several dives. I dove deep once, swimming\
down to the bottom. I swam with my eyes open and it was green and dark.\
The raft made a dark shadow. I came out of water beside the raft, pulled\
up, dove once more, holding it for length, and then swam ashore. I lay\
on the beach until I was dry, then went into the bathing-cabin, took off\
my suit, sloshed myself with fresh water, and rubbed dry.\
\
I walked around the harbor under the trees to the casino, and then up\
one of the cool streets to the Caf\'e9 Marinas. There was an orchestra\
playing inside the caf\'e9 and I sat out on the terrace and enjoyed the\
fresh coolness in the hot day, and had a glass of lemon-juice and shaved\
ice and then a long whiskey and soda. I sat in front of the Marinas for\
a long time and read and watched the people, and listened to the music.\
\
Later when it began to get dark, I walked around the harbor and out\
along the promenade, and finally back to the hotel for supper. There was\
a bicycle-race on, the Tour du Pays Basque, and the riders were stopping\
that night in San Sebastian. In the dining-room, at one side, there was\
a long table of bicycle-riders, eating with their trainers and managers.\
They were all French and Belgians, and paid close attention to their\
meal, but they were having a good time. At the head of the table were\
two good-looking French girls, with much Rue du Faubourg Montmartre\
chic. I could not make out whom they belonged to. They all spoke in\
slang at the long table and there were many private jokes and some jokes\
at the far end that were not repeated when the girls asked to hear them.\
The next morning at five o\'92clock the race resumed with the last lap, San\
Sebastian-Bilbao. The bicycle-riders drank much wine, and were burned\
and browned by the sun. They did not take the race seriously except\
among themselves. They had raced among themselves so often that it did\
not make much difference who won. Especially in a foreign country. The\
money could be arranged.\
\
The man who had a matter of two minutes lead in the race had an attack\
of boils, which were very painful. He sat on the small of his back. His\
neck was very red and the blond hairs were sunburned. The other riders\
joked him about his boils. He tapped on the table with his fork.\
\
\'93Listen,\'94 he said, \'93to-morrow my nose is so tight on the handle-bars\
that the only thing touches those boils is a lovely breeze.\'94\
\
One of the girls looked at him down the table, and he grinned and turned\
red. The Spaniards, they said, did not know how to pedal.\
\
I had coffee out on the terrasse with the team manager of one of the big\
bicycle manufacturers. He said it had been a very pleasant race, and\
would have been worth watching if Bottechia had not abandoned it at\
Pamplona. The dust had been bad, but in Spain the roads were better than\
in France. Bicycle road-racing was the only sport in the world, he said.\
Had I ever followed the Tour de France? Only in the papers. The Tour de\
France was the greatest sporting event in the world. Following and\
organizing the road races had made him know France. Few people know\
France. All spring and all summer and all fall he spent on the road with\
bicycle road-racers. Look at the number of motor-cars now that followed\
the riders from town to town in a road race. It was a rich country and\
more _sportif_ every year. It would be the most _sportif_ country in the\
world. It was bicycle road-racing did it. That and football. He knew\
France. _La France Sportive._ He knew road-racing. We had a cognac.\
After all, though, it wasn\'92t bad to get back to Paris. There is only one\
Paname. In all the world, that is. Paris is the town the most _sportif_\
in the world. Did I know the _Chope de Negre_? Did I not. I would see\
him there some time. I certainly would. We would drink another _fine_\
together. We certainly would. They started at six o\'92clock less a quarter\
in the morning. Would I be up for the depart? I would certainly try to.\
Would I like him to call me? It was very interesting. I would leave a\
call at the desk. He would not mind calling me. I could not let him take\
the trouble. I would leave a call at the desk. We said good-bye until\
the next morning.\
\
In the morning when I awoke the bicycle-riders and their following cars\
had been on the road for three hours. I had coffee and the papers in bed\
and then dressed and took my bathing-suit down to the beach. Everything\
was fresh and cool and damp in the early morning. Nurses in uniform and\
in peasant costume walked under the trees with children. The Spanish\
children were beautiful. Some bootblacks sat together under a tree\
talking to a soldier. The soldier had only one arm. The tide was in and\
there was a good breeze and a surf on the beach.\
\
I undressed in one of the bath-cabins, crossed the narrow line of beach\
and went into the water. I swam out, trying to swim through the rollers,\
but having to dive sometimes. Then in the quiet water I turned and\
floated. Floating I saw only the sky, and felt the drop and lift of the\
swells. I swam back to the surf and coasted in, face down, on a big\
roller, then turned and swam, trying to keep in the trough and not have\
a wave break over me. It made me tired, swimming in the trough, and I\
turned and swam out to the raft. The water was buoyant and cold. It felt\
as though you could never sink. I swam slowly, it seemed like a long\
swim with the high tide, and then pulled up on the raft and sat,\
dripping, on the boards that were becoming hot in the sun. I looked\
around at the bay, the old town, the casino, the line of trees along the\
promenade, and the big hotels with their white porches and gold-lettered\
names. Off on the right, almost closing the harbor, was a green hill\
with a castle. The raft rocked with the motion of the water. On the\
other side of the narrow gap that led into the open sea was another high\
headland. I thought I would like to swim across the bay but I was afraid\
of cramp.\
\
I sat in the sun and watched the bathers on the beach. They looked very\
small. After a while I stood up, gripped with my toes on the edge of the\
raft as it tipped with my weight, and dove cleanly and deeply, to come\
up through the lightening water, blew the salt water out of my head, and\
swam slowly and steadily in to shore.\
\
After I was dressed and had paid for the bath-cabin, I walked back to\
the hotel. The bicycle-racers had left several copies of _L\'92Auto_\
around, and I gathered them up in the reading-room and took them out and\
sat in an easy chair in the sun to read about and catch up on French\
sporting life. While I was sitting there the concierge came out with a\
blue envelope in his hand.\
\
\'93A telegram for you, sir.\'94\
\
I poked my finger along under the fold that was fastened down, spread it\
open, and read it. It had been forwarded from Paris:\
\
                  COULD YOU COME HOTEL MONTANA MADRID\
                  AM RATHER IN TROUBLE BRETT.\
\
I tipped the concierge and read the message again. A postman was coming\
along the sidewalk. He turned in the hotel. He had a big moustache and\
looked very military. He came out of the hotel again. The concierge was\
just behind him.\
\
\'93Here\'92s another telegram for you, sir.\'94\
\
\'93Thank you,\'94 I said.\
\
I opened it. It was forwarded from Pamplona.\
\
                  COULD YOU COME HOTEL MONTANA MADRID\
                  AM RATHER IN TROUBLE BRETT.\
\
The concierge stood there waiting for another tip, probably.\
\
\'93What time is there a train for Madrid?\'94\
\
\'93It left at nine this morning. There is a slow train at eleven, and the\
Sud Express at ten to-night.\'94\
\
\'93Get me a berth on the Sud Express. Do you want the money now?\'94\
\
\'93Just as you wish,\'94 he said. \'93I will have it put on the bill.\'94\
\
\'93Do that.\'94\
\
Well, that meant San Sebastian all shot to hell. I suppose, vaguely, I\
had expected something of the sort. I saw the concierge standing in the\
doorway.\
\
\'93Bring me a telegram form, please.\'94\
\
He brought it and I took out my fountain-pen and printed:\
\
                   LADY ASHLEY HOTEL MONTANA MADRID\
                   ARRIVING SUD EXPRESS TOMORROW LOVE\
                   JAKE.\
\
That seemed to handle it. That was it. Send a girl off with one man.\
Introduce her to another to go off with him. Now go and bring her back.\
And sign the wire with love. That was it all right. I went in to lunch.\
\
I did not sleep much that night on the Sud Express. In the morning I had\
breakfast in the dining-car and watched the rock and pine country\
between Avila and Escorial. I saw the Escorial out of the window, gray\
and long and cold in the sun, and did not give a damn about it. I saw\
Madrid come up over the plain, a compact white sky-line on the top of a\
little cliff away off across the sun-hardened country.\
\
The Norte station in Madrid is the end of the line. All trains finish\
there. They don\'92t go on anywhere. Outside were cabs and taxis and a line\
of hotel runners. It was like a country town. I took a taxi and we\
climbed up through the gardens, by the empty palace and the unfinished\
church on the edge of the cliff, and on up until we were in the high,\
hot, modern town. The taxi coasted down a smooth street to the Puerta\
del Sol, and then through the traffic and out into the Carrera San\
Jeronimo. All the shops had their awnings down against the heat. The\
windows on the sunny side of the street were shuttered. The taxi stopped\
at the curb. I saw the sign HOTEL MONTANA on the second floor. The\
taxi-driver carried the bags in and left them by the elevator. I could\
not make the elevator work, so I walked up. On the second floor up was a\
cut brass sign: HOTEL MONTANA. I rang and no one came to the door. I\
rang again and a maid with a sullen face opened the door.\
\
\'93Is Lady Ashley here?\'94 I asked.\
\
She looked at me dully.\
\
\'93Is an Englishwoman here?\'94\
\
She turned and called some one inside. A very fat woman came to the\
door. Her hair was gray and stiffly oiled in scallops around her face.\
She was short and commanding.\
\
\'93Muy buenos,\'94 I said. \'93Is there an Englishwoman here? I would like to\
see this English lady.\'94\
\
\'93Muy buenos. Yes, there is a female English. Certainly you can see her\
if she wishes to see you.\'94\
\
\'93She wishes to see me.\'94\
\
\'93The chica will ask her.\'94\
\
\'93It is very hot.\'94\
\
\'93It is very hot in the summer in Madrid.\'94\
\
\'93And how cold in winter.\'94\
\
\'93Yes, it is very cold in winter.\'94\
\
Did I want to stay myself in person in the Hotel Montana?\
\
Of that as yet I was undecided, but it would give me pleasure if my bags\
were brought up from the ground floor in order that they might not be\
stolen. Nothing was ever stolen in the Hotel Montana. In other fondas,\
yes. Not here. No. The personages of this establishment were rigidly\
selectioned. I was happy to hear it. Nevertheless I would welcome the\
upbringal of my bags.\
\
The maid came in and said that the female English wanted to see the male\
English now, at once.\
\
\'93Good,\'94 I said. \'93You see. It is as I said.\'94\
\
\'93Clearly.\'94\
\
I followed the maid\'92s back down a long, dark corridor. At the end she\
knocked on a door.\
\
\'93Hello,\'94 said Brett. \'93Is it you, Jake?\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s me.\'94\
\
\'93Come in. Come in.\'94\
\
I opened the door. The maid closed it after me. Brett was in bed. She\
had just been brushing her hair and held the brush in her hand. The room\
was in that disorder produced only by those who have always had\
servants.\
\
\'93Darling!\'94 Brett said.\
\
I went over to the bed and put my arms around her. She kissed me, and\
while she kissed me I could feel she was thinking of something else. She\
was trembling in my arms. She felt very small.\
\
\'93Darling! I\'92ve had such a hell of a time.\'94\
\
\'93Tell me about it.\'94\
\
\'93Nothing to tell. He only left yesterday. I made him go.\'94\
\
\'93Why didn\'92t you keep him?\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. It isn\'92t the sort of thing one does. I don\'92t think I hurt\
him any.\'94\
\
\'93You were probably damn good for him.\'94\
\
\'93He shouldn\'92t be living with any one. I realized that right away.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, hell!\'94 she said, \'93let\'92s not talk about it. Let\'92s never talk about\
it.\'94\
\
\'93All right.\'94\
\
\'93It was rather a knock his being ashamed of me. He was ashamed of me for\
a while, you know.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, yes. They ragged him about me at the caf\'e9, I guess. He wanted me to\
grow my hair out. Me, with long hair. I\'92d look so like hell.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s funny.\'94\
\
\'93He said it would make me more womanly. I\'92d look a fright.\'94\
\
\'93What happened?\'94\
\
\'93Oh, he got over that. He wasn\'92t ashamed of me long.\'94\
\
\'93What was it about being in trouble?\'94\
\
\'93I didn\'92t know whether I could make him go, and I didn\'92t have a sou to\
go away and leave him. He tried to give me a lot of money, you know. I\
told him I had scads of it. He knew that was a lie. I couldn\'92t take his\
money, you know.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, let\'92s not talk about it. There were some funny things, though. Do\
give me a cigarette.\'94\
\
I lit the cigarette.\
\
\'93He learned his English as a waiter in Gib.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93He wanted to marry me, finally.\'94\
\
\'93Really?\'94\
\
\'93Of course. I can\'92t even marry Mike.\'94\
\
\'93Maybe he thought that would make him Lord Ashley.\'94\
\
\'93No. It wasn\'92t that. He really wanted to marry me. So I couldn\'92t go away\
from him, he said. He wanted to make it sure I could never go away from\
him. After I\'92d gotten more womanly, of course.\'94\
\
\'93You ought to feel set up.\'94\
\
\'93I do. I\'92m all right again. He\'92s wiped out that damned Cohn.\'94\
\
\'93Good.\'94\
\
\'93You know I\'92d have lived with him if I hadn\'92t seen it was bad for him.\
We got along damned well.\'94\
\
\'93Outside of your personal appearance.\'94\
\
\'93Oh, he\'92d have gotten used to that.\'94\
\
She put out the cigarette.\
\
\'93I\'92m thirty-four, you know. I\'92m not going to be one of these bitches\
that ruins children.\'94\
\
\'93No.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not going to be that way. I feel rather good, you know. I feel\
rather set up.\'94\
\
\'93Good.\'94\
\
She looked away. I thought she was looking for another cigarette. Then I\
saw she was crying. I could feel her crying. Shaking and crying. She\
wouldn\'92t look up. I put my arms around her.\
\
\'93Don\'92t let\'92s ever talk about it. Please don\'92t let\'92s ever talk about it.\'94\
\
\'93Dear Brett.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m going back to Mike.\'94 I could feel her crying as I held her close.\
\'93He\'92s so damned nice and he\'92s so awful. He\'92s my sort of thing.\'94\
\
She would not look up. I stroked her hair. I could feel her shaking.\
\
\'93I won\'92t be one of those bitches,\'94 she said. \'93But, oh, Jake, please\
let\'92s never talk about it.\'94\
\
We left the Hotel Montana. The woman who ran the hotel would not let me\
pay the bill. The bill had been paid.\
\
\'93Oh, well. Let it go,\'94 Brett said. \'93It doesn\'92t matter now.\'94\
\
We rode in a taxi down to the Palace Hotel, left the bags, arranged for\
berths on the Sud Express for the night, and went into the bar of the\
hotel for a cocktail. We sat on high stools at the bar while the barman\
shook the Martinis in a large nickelled shaker.\
\
\'93It\'92s funny what a wonderful gentility you get in the bar of a big\
hotel,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93Barmen and jockeys are the only people who are polite any more.\'94\
\
\'93No matter how vulgar a hotel is, the bar is always nice.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s odd.\'94\
\
\'93Bartenders have always been fine.\'94\
\
\'93You know,\'94 Brett said, \'93it\'92s quite true. He is only nineteen. Isn\'92t it\
amazing?\'94\
\
We touched the two glasses as they stood side by side on the bar. They\
were coldly beaded. Outside the curtained window was the summer heat of\
Madrid.\
\
\'93I like an olive in a Martini,\'94 I said to the barman.\
\
\'93Right you are, sir. There you are.\'94\
\
\'93Thanks.\'94\
\
\'93I should have asked, you know.\'94\
\
The barman went far enough up the bar so that he would not hear our\
conversation. Brett had sipped from the Martini as it stood, on the\
wood. Then she picked it up. Her hand was steady enough to lift it after\
that first sip.\
\
\'93It\'92s good. Isn\'92t it a nice bar?\'94\
\
\'93They\'92re all nice bars.\'94\
\
\'93You know I didn\'92t believe it at first. He was born in 1905. I was in\
school in Paris, then. Think of that.\'94\
\
\'93Anything you want me to think about it?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t be an ass. _Would_ you buy a lady a drink?\'94\
\
\'93We\'92ll have two more Martinis.\'94\
\
\'93As they were before, sir?\'94\
\
\'93They were very good.\'94 Brett smiled at him.\
\
\'93Thank you, ma\'92am.\'94\
\
\'93Well, bung-o,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Bung-o!\'94\
\
\'93You know,\'94 Brett said, \'93he\'92d only been with two women before. He never\
cared about anything but bull-fighting.\'94\
\
\'93He\'92s got plenty of time.\'94\
\
\'93I don\'92t know. He thinks it was me. Not the show in general.\'94\
\
\'93Well, it was you.\'94\
\
\'93Yes. It was me.\'94\
\
\'93I thought you weren\'92t going to ever talk about it.\'94\
\
\'93How can I help it?\'94\
\
\'93You\'92ll lose it if you talk about it.\'94\
\
\'93I just talk around it. You know I feel rather damned good, Jake.\'94\
\
\'93You should.\'94\
\
\'93You know it makes one feel rather good deciding not to be a bitch.\'94\
\
\'93Yes.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s sort of what we have instead of God.\'94\
\
\'93Some people have God,\'94 I said. \'93Quite a lot.\'94\
\
\'93He never worked very well with me.\'94\
\
\'93Should we have another Martini?\'94\
\
The barman shook up two more Martinis and poured them out into fresh\
glasses.\
\
\'93Where will we have lunch?\'94 I asked Brett. The bar was cool. You could\
feel the heat outside through the window.\
\
\'93Here?\'94 asked Brett.\
\
\'93It\'92s rotten here in the hotel. Do you know a place called Botin\'92s?\'94 I\
asked the barman.\
\
\'93Yes, sir. Would you like to have me write out the address?\'94\
\
\'93Thank you.\'94\
\
We lunched up-stairs at Botin\'92s. It is one of the best restaurants in\
the world. We had roast young suckling pig and drank _rioja_ _alta_.\
Brett did not eat much. She never ate much. I ate a very big meal and\
drank three bottles of _rioja alta_.\
\
\'93How do you feel, Jake?\'94 Brett asked. \'93My God! what a meal you\'92ve\
eaten.\'94\
\
\'93I feel fine. Do you want a dessert?\'94\
\
\'93Lord, no.\'94\
\
Brett was smoking.\
\
\'93You like to eat, don\'92t you?\'94 she said.\
\
\'93Yes.\'94 I said. \'93I like to do a lot of things.\'94\
\
\'93What do you like to do?\'94\
\
\'93Oh,\'94 I said, \'93I like to do a lot of things. Don\'92t you want a dessert?\'94\
\
\'93You asked me that once,\'94 Brett said.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93So I did. Let\'92s have another bottle of _rioja alta_.\'94\
\
\'93It\'92s very good.\'94\
\
\'93You haven\'92t drunk much of it,\'94 I said.\
\
\'93I have. You haven\'92t seen.\'94\
\
\'93Let\'92s get two bottles,\'94 I said. The bottles came. I poured a little in\
my glass, then a glass for Brett, then filled my glass. We touched\
glasses.\
\
\'93Bung-o!\'94 Brett said. I drank my glass and poured out another. Brett put\
her hand on my arm.\
\
\'93Don\'92t get drunk, Jake,\'94 she said. \'93You don\'92t have to.\'94\
\
\'93How do you know?\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t,\'94 she said. \'93You\'92ll be all right.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92m not getting drunk,\'94 I said. \'93I\'92m just drinking a little wine. I\
like to drink wine.\'94\
\
\'93Don\'92t get drunk,\'94 she said. \'93Jake, don\'92t get drunk.\'94\
\
\'93Want to go for a ride?\'94 I said. \'93Want to ride through the town?\'94\
\
\'93Right,\'94 Brett said. \'93I haven\'92t seen Madrid. I should see Madrid.\'94\
\
\'93I\'92ll finish this,\'94 I said.\
\
Down-stairs we came out through the first-floor dining-room to the\
street. A waiter went for a taxi. It was hot and bright. Up the street\
was a little square with trees and grass where there were taxis parked.\
A taxi came up the street, the waiter hanging out at the side. I tipped\
him and told the driver where to drive, and got in beside Brett. The\
driver started up the street. I settled back. Brett moved close to me.\
We sat close against each other. I put my arm around her and she rested\
against me comfortably. It was very hot and bright, and the houses\
looked sharply white. We turned out onto the Gran Via.\
\
\'93Oh, Jake,\'94 Brett said, \'93we could have had such a damned good time\
together.\'94\
\
Ahead was a mounted policeman in khaki directing traffic. He raised his\
baton. The car slowed suddenly pressing Brett against me.\
\
\'93Yes,\'94 I said. \'93Isn\'92t it pretty to think so?\'94\
\
                                THE END\
\
\
\
}